 So now let's design a data model.
 Usually you start out with a user interface
 that if we're gonna build an application,
 you're gonna end up with a user interface.
 In this, I'm not gonna really start with a user interface.
 I'm gonna start with like a spreadsheet view.
 And if you've ever done something like tried to
 organize your music collection with a spreadsheet
 or a video collection with a spreadsheet,
 or you know, you find that spreadsheets are super convenient
 because you can scroll around and do stuff
 and you know, you've learned SQL,
 you know you can go into various cells with SQL,
 rows and columns and update and do all this stuff.
 But you find that after a while,
 you start repeating yourself in spreadsheets
 and you find it's really difficult
 because it's really easy when you're putting data into
 copy, paste, copy, paste, paste, paste, paste, paste, paste,
 and put the same stuff in.
 But then what if you wanna change it?
 And this is where there's a vertical replication
 or the replication of data in multiple places
 is very bad.
 So here's kind of an exploded table view of that same data.
 And this is, it's okay.
 This is the data that we've gotta do.
 So if we look at the use cases of our application,
 what we see is there's a series of books,
 like in this course, Wisdom of Crowds is a book,
 Introduction to Networking, these are all books
 coming down here, unlocking the clubhouse.
 So the first column is titles of books.
 The second column is the ISBN.
 And then we are sort of keeping track
 because we're a library and so we might have more than
 one book and we're gonna call those the book instance.
 So instance one, instance two, instance three.
 Each book, each physical actual book so that
 you might have no physical books actually,
 or you might have one physical book or five physical books
 and each physical book might be checked out
 and have a due date and so we have a status.
 And then we have something like say the language of the book
 or the genre of the book or who wrote the book, right?
 And so that's kind of our, the data we're going to
 represent in this application.
 Now, when you're looking at this,
 the first thing you do is you go like,
 anything where you've got vertical replication is a problem.
 And so you've gotta be careful so you look for
 vertical replication and the places that are problematic
 in this table view of all of our data,
 like the status, the language, the genre,
 you see the word think, think, think, think, think.
 Those are strings, right?
 They're not numbers.
 Okay, wisdom of crowds, wisdom of crowds, wisdom of crowds.
 And the problem here with wisdom of crowds
 is that there are three instances of the book,
 but then because we've got this all in one row,
 I mean one table with just a bunch of columns
 and not multiple tables, well, we have to replicate
 the name wisdom of crowds three times
 so that we can represent the three instances.
 The same is true about the English language
 and the genre and the author name, right?
 These are the same authors, okay?
 So this vertical replication is your first clue
 that says that you've got to come up
 with a smarter data model than just this.
 And so the idea is is you're not allowed
 to put something like the string en, English,
 in more than once in your whole database.
 So what you have to do is you have to split this all out.
 Somehow, you have to remove duplication
 by making a language table, a book table,
 and an instance table.
 And so in the book table, you only put wisdom of crowds once
 and you only put the English language in once
 and Spanish in once.
 But then the problem is, okay, somehow we've taken this data
 and moved it from one big, long bunch of columns
 to three tables with sets of columns.
 But we still have to represent all the original data
 that we were working with before.
 We have to represent all that stuff.
 And so this is where we have to be able to make connections.
 And this is the essence of relational databases
 and that is they don't replicate data,
 but they make connections from one data item
 to another data item.
 And so what we're gonna do here is in the case
 of the wisdom of crowds, we are going to have
 three book instances, but somehow they all point
 to one book in the book table, right?
 And so we have two books that point to the English language
 and one points to the Spanish language.
 Now this seems like, wow, that wasn't such a big deal.
 But when you do millions of records, it actually matters.
 It's the string data that gets you in trouble
 and requires far more scanning and far more storage.
 And another thing that happens is when you follow
 this rule of only one copy, well what if we wanted
 to turn this to uppercase EN or something?
 That means as long as the data is linked
 rather than replicated, that means you're only changing
 one copy, okay?
 So the replication has a performance advantage,
 has a storage advantage, and it has a modifiability advantage
 when there's only one place.
 If we mistakenly misspelled the title of wisdom of crowds,
 it's easy, we fix it.
 It's not in these other tables.
 Whereas if we misspelled the wisdom of crowds here,
 we have to go find on the top one where it's just
 all one big long spreadsheet, we gotta go and like
 do a search and replace, but what if that's
 in a different column?
 So the idea of getting to the point where we have
 unique rows and we connect those rows.
 Now, I haven't told you much about how this magically works.
 I just said we can draw some arrows,
 and so by drawing those arrows, we gotta show you
 how those arrows get drawn, 'cause that's really important.
 So this is how you start drawing the picture
 of your database, and so the kind of relationship
 we're gonna have between tables is like a many to one.
 So when we say many to one, what we're saying is that
 there is one English language entry,
 and then there are many books that go to it.
 So that's a many to one relationship.
 So it could be just one, but it's many.
 And if we look at the data model that we see
 from the Django example from the Mozilla Developer Network,
 we can look at this and we can see here, right?
 This connection between the book table and the language table
 has two ends to it, and it has a direction to it,
 and one end says zero dot dot asterisk,
 and the other end says one.
 So this is many, zero dot dot asterisk means
 a number between zero and infinity, including zero,
 which means it's possible for a book
 not to have a language, we call that.
 We call that null in database concept.
 So there's a book with no language,
 or many books can have one language.
 So there's one language, English, and there is
 as many books as we want, including potentially zero books.
 So we might have a language that has no books
 in our library with that language, and that's okay.
 So in this one, between book and language,
 it's okay to have zero.
 So zero through infinity on the book side of the relationship
 and one on the language side of the relationship.
 If then we look at the relationship
 between the book and the book instance,
 now remember what the book instance purpose is
 is to record the fact that we have multiple copies.
 The actual physical copies of the books that we have.
 And so we might have multiple copies.
 And so if you look at this, it's pretty much the same
 in that there is any number of book instances
 from zero until infinities, and you could have a book
 in your book table for which you didn't actually
 own a physical copy, and that'd be okay.
 We would know things like what its author was,
 what its genre was, et cetera, and then we would
 buy a copy of said book, and we'd add a copy
 to the instance table, and then we'd link that
 into that book.
 So again, you can have zero book instances,
 well, zero through infinity book instances
 mapped to a single book entry.
 Okay, and so this little legend, you know,
 zero to infinity to one, is how we read this table.
 And you will see database tables
 that have different syntaxes, but they all are capturing
 the same thing, and that's the cardinality,
 or the number of things at each end of the arrow.
 So up next, we're gonna show you how to actually
 physically store this information in the database.
 So far, I've been just sort of saying,
 and there's an arrow, but we have to have a way
 to actually store it in the database.
 (jazz music)
