 So we've talked about how we reduce replication
 by moving data from sort of one table with too many columns
 into multiple tables and then make links
 with primary keys and foreign keys.
 But we're really not gonna operate at that level
 'cause this is a django class
 and we're gonna do this in django.
 And so we use data models in models.py to do this.
 And so a lot of the model field types are characters
 or numbers or dates or long text fields, et cetera.
 But some of them are special and used
 in this one-to-many, foreign key, many-to-many fields.
 These are the fields that we use to do the linking
 in our django data model.
 And so we'll take a look at how these all work.
 So if we have our book instance that links to our book table
 and then our book table that links to the language table,
 we end up with special little lines in our models.
 So most of this is pretty familiar.
 We got a language, it's got a name.
 Now one thing about django is it automatically adds
 the ID field and that's kinda nice.
 So you just assume that everything inside of a data model,
 every one of these three tables are going to have ID fields.
 And we don't even talk about the name of the foreign keys
 even though django names them the way I just showed you
 with the lang_id.
 We have just a regular old thing.
 So lang is suitable as a destination for a link
 'cause it has an ID column automatically added
 by django every time.
 The book table has an ID column
 so it's suitable for the destination of a link.
 But then title and ISBN are there.
 And then there's this language and that's the first one.
 And so this is where we're actually modeling
 the need to have links between the book table
 and the language table.
 So we're putting, starting at the from
 or the start of the arrow and we're saying there is,
 we need to have a language.
 But the language is not a string, it's not a number,
 it is a foreign key.
 And it's a foreign key into the table called lang
 and this table called lang matches that table.
 And then we have a couple things.
 I'll talk about on delete in a second
 and then null equals true is whether or not it's required.
 And so what it's saying when null is true
 is we're allowing emptiness.
 So that means it's possible to have a record
 in the book table that doesn't have a language.
 And so that's what we're saying when we're saying null equals true.
 The instance table points to a book,
 it's a foreign key to the book model and it has a do back.
 Now the status was in there and so I sort of shortened it a little bit.
 But we have a foreign key that points into it.
 And so again, we're defining where we have the beginnings of the arrows
 because the ends of the arrows is kind of implicit.
 Django gives us sort of the primary keys for each row in these models
 automatically without us having to say it.
 But you can put it in a Django model if you wanna overwrite the name of it.
 But if you just want a column called id, which everybody pretty much does,
 you just leave it out and Django puts it in for you automatically, okay?
 And so again, you see this from the point of view of the data model
 where we have the arrow between book and language that's a many to one.
 And then a book instance to the book is a many to one as well.
 And so those foreign key links represent the arrows in this data model.
 Now just to sort of review, you might have done already some of these migrations.
 So once you edit these data models and you get them right,
 you have to do a two step process to get them so
 that your database reflects these models.
 The first one is you have to make migrations.
 And so the way the make migrations works is it looks through all of
 the applications that are registered in your settings.py.
 And for every one, it checks to see if the data model has changed since
 the last run of make migrations.
 So make migrations actually creates files in your application
 based on the models.py.
 And it's a series of files like 001 here, that's the first one.
 There might, if we changed it and then run make migrations again,
 there'd be an 02 and what it would do is the 02 is evolution beyond the 001.
 Now the migrations are portable, okay, in that they're not specific to
 the MySQL database, the SQLite database, etc.
 Now the migrate reads those migrations and
 then updates the actual tables in the database.
 And so the migrate is mapping the portable representation of what's supposed
 to be in the database into the actual physical representation in the database.
 Now you'll notice if you run these both twice, once they work,
 they'll say no changes detected.
 Because in the case of the make migrations, it looks at your models and
 then looks at what's in the migrations already and says it's a perfect match.
 And then in the migrate, it looks at what's in the migrations and
 what's in the database table and says everything's there, everything's been done.
 So, this can be confusing because in my documentation,
 I'll say run a make migrations and you say no changes detected.
 Now there's another reason why you might get no changes detected.
 And that is that you have to add it to the settings.py file before you can,
 it's gonna be detected.
 So you might have edited a model.py file and changed it.
 But if the application is not in the settings.py, then it won't be detected.
 So the make migrations is reading through all the applications listed in
 the settings.py, checking for differences,
 deviations between models.py and the migrations.
 It might be a little easier just to show you these things.
 Well, that's coming up, I'll show you those in a second.
 If we look at what the migrate does, the migrate creates the SQLite file.
 And so we can take a look at this file, you don't have to.
 But you can take a look at this file after you've run the migrate.
 And you see, so I have a tables, book one percent.
 That's actually a wild card because the like statement,
 that's like the like statement in SQL.
 So that says, show me all the tables that start with book one.
 And you see that there's three of them.
 Book one underscore book, book one underscore instance, and
 book one underscore lang.
 Book one is the application, cuz Django has project and
 then applications within project, and book one is the application that we're doing.
 And then instance book and lang are the three models that we've specified
 in our database, in our models.py.
 So if we take a look using the schema command of book one,
 we can see how the migrate statement produced the table.
 And so we created a book one dot underscore book.
 It has ID, auto increment, all that stuff from the SQL stuff.
 It's got a title, it's got ISBN, and then it's got this lang ID.
 That's the foreign key.
 So it's actually building the foreign key the right way.
 Now in SQLite, there's one way of building foreign keys.
 In MySQL, there's a different way of building foreign keys.
 And so that's all something that the migrate operation understands how to build.
 And if you look at the language,
 you just see that there's an ID column that's automatically produced, and
 then a name.
 And then if you look at the instance, you see an ID and a dude back,
 which is date.
 And then you see the book ID, which is the foreign key into the book table.
 And so you can kind of see how these tables implement the links as described
 in the picture.
 Now, I was telling you about this on delete.
 So the problem is, is what happens when you have a row in one table,
 like in the book table, that's pointing to a row in a language table, and
 you got records that are pointing there.
 So you've got two books that are pointing to English in this situation.
 And then you delete the English row.
 What happens to the rows?
 And you've got, there's a couple of different things that you can do, but
 the two common things are is cascade.
 And what cascade says is that you're going to delete all the rows.
 If you delete those rows,
 you're gonna delete all the rows that have the matching language ID.
 And set null basically instead says, that's okay.
 We're just gonna wipe out these and make them null.
 And in this language, if we delete a language from the language table,
 we probably just wanna set it to be null, okay?
 And so if you look, you'll see that the relationship between
 the book and the language, which is right here.
 If we delete one of these things, we set it to null.
 We set the corresponding language to null.
 We just throw away these links in a sense.
 And that's okay, cuz books are allowed to not have languages, okay?
 And so languages are allowed to be null, null equals true.
 Languages are allowed to be null.
 But if on the other hand, we get rid of a book from our books table,
 then we probably wanna wipe out all of the instances that are related to that book.
 And so that's why we in here say on delete cascade in the book foreign key entry.
 And we don't say null equals true.
 And so set null requires you to be able to say null equals true.
 So you have to say, I am willing to allow nulls in this column.
 And by the way, if the thing that this column points to is deleted,
 then set it to null, which means don't delete the row.
 Cascade means if the thing we're pointing to is deleted,
 then delete this row, cuz we don't want inconsistent data.
 We don't want those little things pointing off to absolutely nowhere and
 making absolutely no sense.
 So next I wanna go into a little more detail on models, migrations, and
 databases, and how they work at a bit of a low level.
 [MUSIC]
