 Hello, and welcome to another code walkthrough for Django for Everybody.
 In this, we're going to walk through the how to handle pictures, and in our DJ4E samples,
 I'm going to walk through the code.
 So first, let's walk through just how it basically works.
 It's a CRUD application.
 This is CRUD, and now we have this BrowseSync to upload a file, and so we'll upload that
 file, and then when we look at it, we're going to see it.
 If I click on the picture, I get kind of this overlay view.
 That's all JavaScript, and then I hide it, and I can upload it.
 I can edit and delete it.
 So let me kind of walk through how this works.
 So first off, let's take a look at urls.py.
 There's nothing particularly special, the whole pattern is kind of the same.
 I'll come back to this particular URL, the actual picture, the thing that in a sense
 serves the picture, so if I open this, view the image in a new tab, well, it's this URL
 that's actually serving the image.
 This image is stored in the database, and so we'll come back to that particular one.
 It's the stream file view, okay?
 So let's go back to all pics, and let's start taking a look first.
 Let's go at the model first, because this is where everything starts.
 Sure, let's go put the model here, put the views there, and the forms there.
 Okay, so let's start the model.
 We'll start from the back and forwards.
 So if we were to go look at the admin, I think I've got the admin hidden in this particular
 one.
 Let's take a look at admin.py.
 Yeah, I'm going to -- so this is one of the things.
 Let me show you how the admin works.
 I hope I got admin going, probably don't have my admin account.
 Oh, there we are, we have admin.
 So if I'm to take a look at the pics.
 So it turned out that I didn't want either of these two things to show up, because it
 turned out it made it difficult, because I couldn't update things, so you won't see
 picture or content type here in admin, and I do that by excluding this.
 Instead of doing a shortcut, I'm going to register for the model pic this particular
 class, and it allows me to have this class-wide variable called exclude, so that I don't show
 those things.
 And so that's just a little trick on admin, so that when you see it -- when they're in
 the database, they're just not there, because the admin interface is not smart enough to
 update these pictures the way I want to update them, so I'm going to hide that.
 So in the model, we've got a binary field, which is like a blob if you're into databases,
 and I'm allowing it to be null and blank and editable, and then there is this thing called
 the content type.
 And the content type is -- I'm going to open this in a new window, and I copy this location.
 So if I were to do a view developer console network, one of the things when you're serving
 images is that you've got to -- you've got to set the MIME type.
 So this is a GET request, and it sent a bunch of data, but if I look at the headers here,
 the response header includes this header called the content type.
 Oh, no, that was the icon.
 What am I doing?
 Persist logs.
 I'll clear this.
 It's not the icon.
 That was the icon, but let me retrash this.
 And so this is the actual PNG, and then the icon comes as well.
 Of course, the icon's that little picture, but the content type is image/PNG, and that's
 really important.
 When you're uploading the file, you get to have it, and then you have to send it back
 out.
 Otherwise, the browser will not know how to properly format this.
 So that is what is here, right?
 That's the content type.
 It's just a string field.
 The content type is just a string, but it's very important to track it.
 So when I am in an ad, when I upload the file and I pick it, it's actually communicated
 to me as part of the uploaded data, but I gotta remember it.
 I got actual pixels go in here, and the content type goes in its own character field.
 The pixels of the picture, the actual colors and stuff, go into this binary field.
 And I'm going to use the owner.
 So we're going to have this, we did this before, we have an owner, and that's just going to
 be automatically created when I, there's a owners.py, there's a owners.py.
 So there's owners.py, and I mean the owner.py from the previous thing, and that gets all
 taken care of in the views.
 So all we got is pretty much a standard thing, except we've got these two things, and those
 are hidden from the admin.
 So now let's take a look at the views.
 And so we're going to use the owner views again, and those are automatically handling
 all of the detail of setting the owner field.
 And there is just not a single line of code in here that has anything to do with setting
 the owner field.
 So let me set, have this owner field in my model, and then I just extend for all of my
 other views, I extend that, okay?
 So I have an owner list view, an owner detail view, and you'll notice those do not require
 login.
 I'm going to specify the template name.
 I'm getting a little tired of just remembering I don't necessarily like their naming conventions,
 and so this, I'm going to have my own template names here.
 And then create view, this one you're going to make one, okay?
 And we're going to have a get request, just like going back, because I can't quite make
 this one complete, and my post request, and so the post request.
 Yeah, I'm going to, so I'm just, this I might have been able to extend something or put
 inside, but I'm just going to do all the work.
 You'll notice, I'll walk through this, this will be a good review of that.
 So let's just look at the, let's look at the pick create view next.
 So let's take a look at forms.html.
 So now let's look at forms.py.
 So the create form, so if you think about it, if you recall, right, there is the views
 in the middle, views, and then the thing that talks to the browser that really controls
 our relationship with the browser is the form, and the thing that controls our relationship
 with the database is the model, right?
 So the view is interacting with the form to get what it needs to do, and then it kind
 of transports it to the model.
 So that would be kind of like a controller function if we're thinking a model view controller.
 This would be, but that's okay.
 So the form, the form is what determines all of what's going on on this screen, and then
 the model, yeah, oh yeah, that's not, that looks really not good.
 The model is what is going on back here, and so you can think of the view as like manipulating
 both the form, both the form and the model, so it's interacting with them, and so you'll
 see when it's doing things in the beginning, like clear escape, okay, so you'll see that
 in the view, when it's doing its work, it's working with the form, and then eventually
 it's working with the model toward the end, okay, and so to some degree, this POST request
 is to get data from the form and handle everything when it's doing it.
 So let's avoid, to some degree, the hardest bits, we'll come back to that in a second.
 So let's go and hit cancel, and then add a PIC, add a PIC basically runs this GET request.
 So we're gonna grab the form, it's the CREATE form, and there's a little bit of work in
 here, there's the CREATE form, and we're gonna jack into, just object-oriented ways, we're
 gonna jack into the CLEAN, we're gonna jack into the SAVE, but for now, all it's doing
 is this bit right here that you've been using for a while, and so we're gonna tell it what,
 we're gonna make a picture form, and so here's a thing, so there is a file field, and so
 we're asking the form to include a file field, okay, and so that's what puts out this file
 to upload less than or equal to megabytes, we've got a little bit of code to both have
 a numeric limit of the size, max upload limit, that's just a class-wide variable, and then
 the max upload limit text, which is that in text, and that little file to upload less
 than or equal to two megabytes, that's because I'm doing this in the form.
 So I've got a little bit of logic in the form, and it is a model form, which means that it
 takes its input from, I don't have to put these things in there, but I do have to tell
 it which things I actually wanna do, and so I want the title and the text, I don't want
 the owner, and create it at an update or kind of automatically, so that's why I've got the
 fact that inherit from the PIC model, which is this model, inherit from the PIC model,
 and include title, text, and picture.
 Now, title and text come from the model, and picture comes from right here, so we're not,
 if Django were our friend, it would understand this would be a file field, but it's not,
 and so we have to actually manipulate it and convert it, it's not hard, but in between
 the view, I mean the form and the model, we gotta do a bit of work, and we do it here
 in forms.py.
 Okay, so meta, okay, so this part here in the top is all that is affected to create
 this screen, right, so that's what the get is doing, so if we look at the get, it makes
 a form, and then it renders it to self template, which is pics.form.html, and here we go.
 It's pretty straightforward now, we're just gonna load our crispy form tag, extend our
 base bootstrap, put out the CSRF token, pretty up the form and crispy, and that's sort of
 everything from title into file upload, and then we have a submit button and a cancel
 button.
 So one of the things that we're going to do is we are going to add some jQuery, and that
 is we're going to connect into this form, and when the submit button is pressed, we're
 gonna run this JavaScript code, so this line right here, upload form, submit function,
 that makes it so that whenever the submit button, whenever this submit button here is
 pressed on this form, this jQuery is going to run, and so we will do a web developer,
 well, it's not gonna do us much good because, actually we can, so I'll show you how that
 works.
 So what we're gonna do here is this is a bit of code, I've got this off stack overflow
 right there, and what I'm gonna do basically is I'm going to read whether or not this file
 is greater than or equal to two megabytes, so if it's greater than two megabytes, I'm
 gonna stop and complain with an alert statement, so this is JavaScript, and returning false
 here says I'm not going to upload it.
 So let me create one with some stuff, and let me browse, let me find a really large
 file, okay, so now I'm gonna do a web developer JavaScript console, oh and by the way, let
 me do a view source on this, so you can kind of see that, you can see all the stuff that
 came from base bootstrap, and you can see there's the CSRF token, there is the file
 input types, and then here's submit, and then here's the JavaScript at the bottom, and this
 JavaScript is running code out of jQuery, and we'll talk about jQuery right now, we'll
 just look at it as JavaScript, and we happen to be using the jQuery library, okay, so now
 what I'm gonna do is I'm going to press submit, and I'm gonna watch this console, I'm gonna
 press the submit button, and code is going to run, and you're gonna see the JavaScript
 run, and it's not gonna be happy with this file, Sakai, ladies of Sakai, 'cause it's
 too big, I think, yeah, so there you go, look, it said checking file size, and it complained
 that this ladies of Sakai camp type must be less than two megabytes, which is exactly
 what I wanted, and so that, I enforced that rule right here, okay, now it turns out that
 I gotta also enforce it in the server, because somebody could easily just override that and
 enforce it to be uploaded, but you see that the JavaScript is running in this browser,
 and it's kind of protecting it, other than that, this looks pretty much like a standard
 CRUD thing, except very importantly, if you're uploading files, you gotta say, and type equals
 multipart slash form data, and that has to do with the format that the data is sent,
 if you just have like a few text fields, then you don't need this, but if you have longer
 things like files, you need that, and so that is how we get through the get request, okay,
 so now, let me pick a better file, pong, my favorite, where's my pong, that's dangerous,
 one of my earliest, I don't know, got so many little files, Apple iPhone, Sakai JPG, whatever,
 so this one's nice less than two, and I'm gonna hit the post, so I'm gonna hit the submit,
 now the post is gonna come through, and it's gonna run this code right here, and this is
 probably the trickiest part of this code, so if you recall, we can construct a create
 form, and get it back, and we pull the data, request.post, now it turns out that these
 little attached files, like Apple iPhone, Sakai JPG, comes in in request.files, and
 or none, just in case it's not there, okay, and so what happens is, is this is where we're
 going to do some of our work, we're gonna actually pull data from this request.files,
 and so we're going to jack in to the clean, so clean is one of the life cycles of a model
 form, meaning once the data comes in, it's gonna ask to be cleaned, so what we do is
 we call the super, call the super class, the model form class, and do the clean there,
 it doesn't know anything about picture, because we're the one that added that, okay, but then
 we get the data in cleaned data, and it's a dictionary at that point, and so I can get
 the picture, so remember that the form is the part that's coming in from the browser,
 right, and then I can make the picture, I can get it from there, if I got no picture,
 I don't need to do anything special, right, if I do, I am checking to see if the amount
 of data that I got from that upload is greater than that upload limit, it's good, so this
 is mostly here to check to make sure I'm cleaning the data, I'm not actually saving it, but
 I am grabbing the picture from the form, and I'm checking to see if it's greater than two
 megabytes, and then I'm gonna add, this is what you do in clean, clean is just to say
 a nasty message, now in this case, the nasty message I showed you before came from JavaScript,
 but if you somehow tricked my JavaScript and sent it, this clean would catch it, and so
 from my view here, clean is happening right now, form is valid happens afterwards, so
 it's a side effect of clean, you're saying is the form valid, and if there was an error
 from this, or if there was an error like my title was too short, right, then boop, it
 would come back and say title is greater than two characters, oh we love crispy forms, look
 how pretty errors are in crispy forms, that is running this little bit of code right here,
 if the form is not valid, and it could have been, and in that particular case, the super
 got upset, right, because this min length validator triggered, and so the super got upset, and
 set form was not valid, now mine looked good, right, but now the picture's gone, so I can
 make a slightly longer title here, and browse completely, I don't know what I'm doing, these
 are really old pictures of mine, so now it's gonna pass, it's gonna pass, this is gonna
 pass, and I'm gonna grab this, and I'm gonna do my own check, that's sort of a double check
 on this less than two megabytes, 'cause even though the client protects you, and that's
 the more user friendly, 'cause this is catching it after the upload happened, and that might
 be long, two megabytes doesn't take that long, but now it's going to come, and it's gonna
 pass this, and skip, and then it's gonna come here, boop, and it worked, so here's what's
 happening, so you've got the form, the form has like, took all that data, including the
 file, right, and cleaned it all up, and I'm gonna call form.save, commit equals false,
 and then I'm gonna set the owner field, because I'm not extending owner view here, so I gotta
 set that owner view, 'cause I'm gonna ultimately override both this post and the get, and I
 wasn't gonna get much help out of owner at that point, and then I'm gonna save the model,
 so form.save gives me back a model, if I don't say commit equals false, it actually does
 the pick.save also, so if you save the form without commit equals false, commit equals
 false means don't store it in the database, okay, so let's take a look at what's going
 on here in form.save, so I have also overridden form.save, and I'm just behaving, commit equals
 true is a default, but when I say commit equals false, then commit will be false, and so,
 I have got to call the super, right, actually this is really not right, oh I want, oh no,
 actually, no matter what the commit is, this is the end user's wish for commit, I am going
 to do a super, and I'm gonna run a save with commit false, no matter what this person wants
 it to give me commit true or not, I'm gonna run commit false, then what I've gotta do
 is I've gotta grab the picture, the picture from the form, I'm in a form, and I check
 to see if this is an in memory uploaded file, and there's all kind of cool magic that's
 happening right here, it's got this, oh, it's in memory, it's got this thing, it's an object,
 it's really nice, and then what I say is give me all the data, the byte array, which reads
 all of the pixels of the file, and then f.content type is that image/png, and I then need to
 put that in the instance, which is the model, I've gotta add to it the byte array of the
 text and the content type, I've gotta store both of those things, and now I'm talking
 to the database, the picture, oops, the picture and the content type are being set as part
 of the save, then what I do is if commit is true, now I'm trying to mimic the save behavior,
 now I'm only using this one way, right, with commit equals false, but someone might leave
 this out and call my form, I'm supposed to actually save the model if commit is true,
 but in this case commit will be false, so I'm just gonna return the instance, at this
 point I have an object model, an object model, and in that object model, all these two fields
 are exactly the way they wanna be, and the only thing I've gotta do is set the owner
 field, which I'm doing right there, and then I'm storing it in the database, and then I
 redirect, and that's how it works, it's pretty cool, you gotta kinda get your object-oriented
 zen thing going, and pretty awesome, so I'll just go through the update view, because it's
 not that different than the create view, so it looks the same on the get, we're going
 to go grab the old copy out of the database, and then we're gonna make a form and inherit
 all the old data, now in this one it's not gonna put the picture out there, it'll just
 put out a new one, so if I'm in the edit right here, it's not going to put the picture here,
 but it'll let me put a new picture here, 'cause that's in the form, but all the old data is
 sitting right here, and then that renders the update form, and then I make my changes,
 blah, blah, blah, blah, actually, blah, blah, blah, right, blah, blah, blah, and then when
 I post it, it's going to do this create form, and the difference is it's gonna do a get
 object or 404, so that it pulls that old data from the database, and then it does the validation
 automatically, it calls this clean to do that validation, and then we save it, et cetera,
 and so that's how it actually updates all of this stuff.
 So the only thing left to take a look at is the detail page, and so some of these things
 we don't have detail pages, and some we do, so let's take a look at this one, right, so
 this detail page looks just about like every detail page, let's go take a look at the view,
 and so it's pretty good, I mean, we're just, it looks, we're using the same code that we've
 used for everything, and we're using owner detail view, we're telling it what model to
 use, and I'm going to use pics detail, and most of this, again, humanizes to make times
 and dates look better, I'll get back to that CSS in a bit, here you have, we'll come back
 to this too in a second, I'm just showing you the parts that are like the way you've
 been doing it, it's got the buttons for the update, this is part of the owner code, right,
 if the owner is the user, we're gonna write a pencil on a trash little icon, and then
 print out the title, and then the text, and then some all, right, some all stuff, okay,
 so that's what's familiar, let's now talk about what's different, so let's first talk
 about the HTML that generates this little picture, so if I do an inspect element, we'll
 see that what we've got here is image style, float right, max width, that's some CSS, but
 the source here is pics, pic picture three, and so if you look what I'm doing here is
 I'm going to the pics pic picture view, and then the pic ID, and that pic ID is just the
 pic that came in, and if we go back to URLs now, that's this one, and it goes into stream,
 use stream file, and it passes in an integer number as the variable pk, so let's go take
 a look at that, so that's this one, and you'll notice that this is not a class based one,
 it's an old school one, mostly because hey, I'm just gonna do get, with class based ones
 we can do def get and def post, but this one I'm just gonna do an old school thing, passes
 in the request and the first parameter, which of course is that number three, that's the
 primary key of the image that we're trying to see.
 So I'm going to do a get object or 404, and of type pic, and I'm gonna look it up by its
 primary key, which is that three, and now I have it.
 And so I'm going to send an HTTP response, but this is not a text response, nor is it
 an HTML response, this is where that content type, going back to the model, remember this
 is the mind type, that image slash png, and so, oops, come back, so as part of the response,
 so now if I can get this guy to open in a new, can I make that guy open, come on, open
 a new page, can I do that, come on, open in a new page, view image, is that gonna work?
 Well okay, I guess it sort of worked, I wanna view image in, okay, there we go, that's what
 I wanted, I'll just go back and put this in by itself, so now I can see that this is the
 URL that generates the picture, now the picture is sitting in my database, right, but if I
 do view developer and go into network, and clear the network, and make sure I've got,
 oh it's already cleared, persist logs and disable cache, now if I hit refresh, it's
 gonna see that it's coming back, and the response content type is image dash png, so to set
 that, to set this, and that's essential so that when the browser is seeing the pixels,
 it knows that this is a png, not a jpeg, or a gif, or mpg, or a pdf, or whatever, so this
 content type is something that we stored, we got it when we were doing the post, and
 we pulled it in, we took all that stuff, and if you look at forms.py, it was grabbing it
 here, in the save method, and we got it from the form, and then we stored it in the database,
 and now we've got it back from the database, and so we're just saying the content type,
 which is a header, is pic.content type, that's a string, and then we also have to tell it
 how long it is, but pic.picture is the actual pixels that are the picture, and you have
 to tell it how long it is, so if you look at content length, right there, 470,152, yeah,
 470,152, so that's content length, we knew that from the database, and then we actually
 write the pixels, and the place you see this is when you click on response, now it's basically
 showing you, yeah, that's a picture, but if you really looked at it, it's just bits and
 bytes and complete gibberish, and so that's what it takes to send that stream out, and
 so that's what makes it so that when I have an image tag, when I have this image tag,
 I can source, but I'm actually feeding that picture, okay, so, so that's how the picture
 gets there, but then I'm going to show you how when I click on this picture, I get this
 overlay, and then when I click on the overlay, it goes away, now that this is, there's all
 kind of fancy things, and Bootstrap has modals, I did this with the simplest and crudest of
 CSS and JavaScript tricks, okay, so let's take a look at how I did that, at that point,
 now we're in JavaScript, so first thing I've got is a CSS, and it's this overlay position
 fixed, and you'll see that I have a div tag that has the picture in it, and it's got a
 whole bunch of CSS in it, the width is 90%, the margin top, the border's three pixel with
 a solid black, so you'll see this, it's 90% of the width, it's got a three pixel margin,
 the margin top is 50 pixels, so there's 50 pixels here, and so that picture is there,
 but because this class equals overlay, all this other stuff is there as well, so that's
 not the picture, that's the rest of it, so you can see that this is fixed, which means
 it overlaps, this div and the rest of the page, this div right here and the rest of
 the page are like two layers, Z index is 10, puts it on top, 100% width, 100% height, display
 none means it starts out hidden, and then I've got kind of this little gray, you see
 this little gray bit, and then the image has this style, the width 90% margin top, 50 pixels,
 that's giving me the border and the margin and making it 90% wide, well let me get rid
 of it, hit refresh, so it's not there, it's not there, but if I do a view page source,
 view page source, it is there, it is there, it's just hidden, it's hidden because I told
 it to be hidden here, so it starts out hidden, so how does it unhide? Well, if I look, I've
 got this image here, this is the actual image, that's this image that's really showing on
 the page, and I've got an onclick, a bit of JavaScript, so onclick, so what I'm doing
 is I've got an onclick there, and then I say document.getElementByID overlay, which is
 looking for whatever tag has ID equals overlay, and then I'm changing its display from hidden
 to block, so when that onclick happens, when I click on goodbye, goodbye, so when I click
 on this image, I've got an onclick event anywhere in this image that is going to show this other
 div, so this other div, poof, pops out, now what I've got is an onclick method on that
 div, so that I can click anywhere in here, including the picture or the background, because
 that's part of the overlay, the overlay is the entire div in the background, so I can
 click anywhere, click, and then that triggers this document.getElementByID style display
 none, so it's still there, it's hidden, so I can bring it up, I can hide it, I can bring
 it up, I can hide it, I can bring it up, I can hide it, and I tried to make this one
 as simple as possible, there are prettier ways, and people put little X up here and
 it hides it, they make a whole modal, they use bootstrap, they use all kinds of clever
 things, this is like the least clever way to make a full screen, semi full screen popup
 of an image using a bit of JavaScript here and a bit of JavaScript here, and then some
 just slightly clever CSS, and I'm sure I found most of this on Stack Overflow somewhere.
 So I hope that you found this particular walkthrough of how to add images to a CRUD application
 useful, so hope you found it useful, cheers.
