 - Hello, and welcome to our lecture about JavaScript.
 JavaScript is another programming language,
 and it's, if the Python is the only language you know,
 it's quite a bit different than Python.
 So JavaScript was originally designed
 as an addition to HTML and CSS,
 and it really started as a programming language
 inside of the browser that runs right in the browser.
 Even though it's named like JavaScript, like Java,
 it's really more like Python in how it works,
 and it, except that it has a C-like syntax.
 And it's really an amazing language,
 and a lot of people, for a lot of people,
 it's their number one language, their favorite language,
 and so it's worth learning JavaScript,
 even if you love Python.
 So JavaScript is an interesting language
 in that it was built very quickly in 10 days in 1995
 by a fellow named Brennan Icke.
 Brennan was a PhD in physics,
 and he knew a lot about programming languages
 and formal languages and how to build compilers really fast.
 And so the idea was to make a sort of a subversion of Java,
 like a lightweight version of Java,
 and put it in the browser.
 Today, it's gone through a standardization process,
 and it's called ECMA script.
 And so if we were to take a look
 at the history of programming languages,
 you know, probably, oops, you know by now,
 you know Python, right?
 And Python is a great language,
 and JavaScript is the other language we're gonna learn here.
 And this just sort of puts them in some context
 so that you understand a bit of the influences.
 So in the very beginnings, in the '50s, 1950s,
 we programmed in assembly language,
 and then most computers,
 all they could do is numeric calculations very well,
 and so languages like Fortran came along.
 Probably there's lots of languages,
 and so if you go back to the '50s and the '60s,
 people were inventing languages all the time.
 But a language that really, for me, changed everything
 was the C language, invented in 1972,
 and I still wanna do a really cool class on C.
 C's not a good language to write everything in.
 It's very much like a assembly language.
 It mirrors how computers really work,
 which is kind of different than how we program computers
 in a lot of ways.
 But the other thing that C was doing was
 it was acknowledging that computers
 were less and less about numerical computations,
 and more about strings, and you know words,
 and messages, and things like that.
 So if you, you know, it's probably 95% of the calculations
 in computers have to do with moving data around,
 not numbers around, and C was great at that.
 So all the languages I used up till I started using C,
 they were kind of a numeric system
 that was sort of fighting to do characters well,
 and the C was a very well done character system.
 And so it became the language, C is the language
 that's kind of the mother language of all this.
 It's the Linux is written in C, Python is written in C,
 PHP is written in C, JavaScript is probably written in C.
 And so it's like the lowest level language
 that we go to these days.
 And when you're writing a language
 and you want it to be fast,
 the implementation of that language is often written in C.
 C++ came from C as an object-oriented variation,
 and we talked a lot about object-oriented Python.
 We're gonna talk about object-oriented JavaScript coming up.
 And so C++ influenced a whole lot of systems
 that had to do in a sense C++ influenced Python as well.
 And so C++ has added an object-oriented layer.
 It's actually probably the least object-oriented
 of any of these other languages on here,
 but it had object-oriented concepts.
 C# was Microsoft's version of that.
 Java was open source, the thing that became
 the sort of progenitor of JavaScript.
 But again, they're not as related as you might think.
 It's really JavaScript came from C
 more than it came from Java.
 There's a few things that are imitating Java.
 And so all of the things above this line
 are semicolon and curly brace.
 They use semicolon and curly brace to end lines
 and to begin and end blocks.
 Curly brace, beginning curly brace, and end curly brace.
 And then there is this other set of programming languages
 that don't use semicolon and curly brace.
 And C was the first language
 that did the semicolon and curly brace.
 And so these languages that are kind of below this line,
 Bash, Perl, Python, and PHP are really,
 actually PHP is a semicolon and curly brace as well.
 Python is the language we've been learning,
 and it's really the odd language.
 So we're going to learn a language that's in the category
 that makes it easier for you to learn C,
 or C++, or Java, or Objective-C.
 And so this is worth learning, even though you know Python.
 There was another movement that was sort of,
 C is a very high performance language
 and really aimed computer scientists
 to build complex systems like Linux.
 But then there were languages for like the end user
 that just got work done but weren't seen as like
 super performant for professionals,
 et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 And so Bash, which is the Linux shell
 where you're typing CD and LS if you're familiar with that.
 Perl was a report generation language
 that introduced the concept of associative arrays.
 And most people joke about Perl.
 I don't like Perl 'cause I can never read my code
 after I write it.
 I can write it, but I can't read it afterwards.
 But it introduced a lot of wonderful concepts
 like associative arrays,
 which we would call dictionaries in Python.
 And Perl, it really definitely influenced Python
 because of its ease of programming.
 So what Perl was really good at was allowing a person
 with very little formal training on data structures
 to be able to use associative arrays
 and nested associative arrays
 to create pretty sophisticated data structures.
 And Python came along with that.
 And PHP also, original PHP stood
 for Perl Hypertext Processor.
 Now it doesn't stand for that.
 But Perl and Python and PHP are in this category
 of sort of interpreted, easy to use languages
 with strings that work really nice.
 And they just make life a lot easier.
 In languages like C, strings are very difficult.
 So if we take a look at this, right?
 We've learned Python
 and we're going to learn JavaScript next.
 And so we're moving in.
 But again, JavaScript you can think of
 as unlocking a whole bunch of other languages.
 And so it's worth learning it a little bit.
 Even though in this class,
 we're not going to go into any great detail
 'cause mostly you're gonna be cutting and pasting JavaScript
 and then tweaking it and reading it and debugging it.
 So we're really not focusing
 on writing too much new JavaScript.
 So there's a couple of situations
 where you'll find yourself writing some JavaScript.
 One is augmenting HTML.
 That'll be the first thing we'll do.
 There is this thing in the browser that runs JavaScript.
 And the way it interacts with the browser's UI
 is through the document object model.
 You can add a library like jQuery
 to make that interaction easier
 'cause the document object models
 aren't as portable across browsers
 as we would like sometimes.
 And then to keep going,
 you find that you're building more and more
 of your application logic in the browser.
 And so they say, you know what?
 I just want to write the model in view part,
 maybe, I mean, the controller in view part
 in the browser in JavaScript using a templating language.
 And you can use like Viewer React to do that.
 And then if you keep on going,
 you can add JavaScript as just a language.
 And they've implemented it inside the server
 using as a server-based language.
 And we would use Django and Python
 as our server-based language,
 but you can actually write your entire application
 front to back in JavaScript
 and use something like Node to run the server side of it
 that's actually talking to the database.
 So there's lots and lots.
 JavaScript is just like you're opening the door
 into a lot of really wonderful capabilities.
 So like I said, it is in the syntax family of Java,
 and that is that it has semicolons to end lines,
 whitespace doesn't matter,
 open curly brace and close curly brace,
 start and end blocks,
 whereas in Python, you just end a line
 and you indent to indicate a block of text
 and you de-indent to indicate the end of that block of text.
 Now, I will admit that Python is not my favorite syntax.
 It is my favorite language in that I like its libraries,
 I like how it thinks about things,
 I like its object-oriented patterns.
 I like a lot about it, but I do like my curly braces
 because for me, I like to see the beginning and end of blocks,
 whereas in Python, you only see the beginning,
 but that's okay.
 I'm just saying that now you're going to see
 some of this syntax and it's gonna look,
 if Python's the only language you know,
 it's gonna look quite different.
 If you know Java, you'll be like,
 yeah, of course I know that.
 I've been programming that for a long time.
 So up next, we're gonna talk about
 how we work with JavaScript when we're sitting in a browser.
 (jazz music)
