 So now we're gonna talk about how you use JavaScript
 in a browser, and as I said before,
 this is just only one of the possible ways
 that you might use Java, but this is pretty much
 what we'd call vanilla Java, or basic Java,
 or Java without view, or Java without jQuery,
 or Java without node.
 This was the original JavaScript purpose, right?
 It was to be in the browser, augment HTML.
 So here we have a happy little bit of HTML.
 We've got some HTML, you've got a body,
 you've got a paragraph tag, and we've got this script tag.
 So the script tag says we're moving out of HTML as syntax,
 and we are then writing some JavaScript code.
 And we are talking to the document.
 Document, the DOM, is in a sense that part of your browser
 that's like the pixels that you're seeing.
 And so this JavaScript code can write
 to what you're seeing on the screen
 by going through this variable called document.
 Document.write writes onto the screen.
 And so if you take a look at this code,
 it's coming down, the title out comes to the body,
 the paragraph comes out, then it drops into JavaScript,
 and then this little string gets written out,
 then it goes back in.
 The no script tag is in case there's no JavaScript,
 which is really rare these days,
 and then the paragraph comes out.
 So the point is that this has created a three line web page,
 the first and the third line come from HTML,
 and the second line comes from JavaScript.
 Not that this is a particularly useful example.
 It just points out that JavaScript has access
 to the screen when it's running inside of a web page.
 That's powerful, and we're gonna drive a truck
 through all that.
 So whenever I learn a new programming language,
 the first thing I gotta do is print a debug statement.
 And the debug statement is called alert,
 and you say alert, you put a string in it,
 and it stops, it stops the program,
 and you have to press okay, then it continues on.
 So that way I'm like, did that code run or not?
 And I just put a little alert hello world in there,
 and then poof, up it goes.
 And then just pops up a little dialogue,
 and you press okay, and it continues.
 So that's really quite nice.
 And so here's a little example of that,
 where we're cruising along, the paragraph is written out.
 And one of the things that you'll notice
 is that this alert box actually stops the JavaScript.
 So we switch into JavaScript.
 The browser is still parsing the page,
 and you'll see sometimes little spinner is still spinning.
 So it stops, it puts up the alert dialogue box,
 here I am, and waits until you press okay.
 And in a sense, your browser is paused at that point.
 'Cause literally, it doesn't know what you're gonna do,
 and this JavaScript has every right
 to change every bit of this page,
 'cause the JavaScript is in the page, using a document.
 So it pauses until you press okay,
 and then it picks back up,
 and then it will write hello world,
 and the second paragraph will come.
 But alert, you just stick it in your JavaScript,
 and whatever's happening, bang, it stops right there,
 and everything stops.
 And so that's a pretty cool thing.
 And so it's a, you can't use it too much,
 you can't use it in a loop,
 and if you do it too many times,
 your browser will be like,
 "Why is this page throwing up so many alert boxes?"
 But in a pinch, it's the simplest thing.
 So there's three ways to get JavaScript into your web page.
 One is inlining the document,
 and that's what I just showed you
 with a da-da-da-da script, da-da-da-da slash script.
 It can be, we've done, and we've done this before,
 it's part of an event in an HTML tag.
 And we'll show you that, or you can put the JavaScript
 in its own little file, usually ending in .js.
 So here's the second one.
 This is the one where we're putting in an onClick method.
 And so we've been doing this, right?
 We've been doing onClick methods,
 where we'll have an href, and then onClick,
 and then say something.
 And in this one, this part here in the middle,
 that is just JavaScript,
 and that's why it has semicolons to end each line.
 White space doesn't matter, this isn't Python.
 Don't need new lines, et cetera.
 So when we click on this Click Me button,
 that is going to start running this code.
 Now the page is already fully rendered,
 and the Click Me button is waiting to be clicked.
 And onClick, that's when a click happens,
 event-driven programming, then it runs the alert, pauses.
 Better change the color there.
 It runs the alert.
 Hmm, how come I can't get it to be yellow?
 There it's yellow.
 Clear it, go back up, and be yellow.
 Thank you for being yellow.
 So you click on it, it runs this JavaScript,
 which runs the alert, which pops the box up.
 Then you press the OK, and then it continues on this code.
 Now the return false is telling the anchor tag
 not to follow the link, right?
 And so that basically says,
 I, the onClick method, have processed this particular click.
 And so that's what the return false does.
 So we are basically just have JavaScript
 in the middle of a tag that's triggered
 when an event happens.
 So event-based programming.
 The other thing we can do is we can make this
 in a completely separate file.
 So we're gonna have this file called script.js.
 Now it doesn't need a script tag
 'cause it knows that it's JavaScript, so that's just code.
 This happens to be one line
 that's got a document.writeHelloWorld,
 and now we embed it with a script tag and a slash script,
 but now we just say source equals script.
 It pulls it in, it loads and runs
 and parses that whole thing.
 And as a side effect, it writes out one paragraph,
 hello world, and the second paragraph.
 And of course, usually this isn't doing work.
 Usually this is defining a bunch of functions
 that we're going to use later.
 And so usually this is script.js
 is a function, function, function, function,
 so we're kind of loading a library of functions
 that we're gonna use later.
 But I just put this document right
 so you can kind of see when it's happening
 as the document is loading.
 So in any programming language,
 we can make errors as a programmer, right?
 We can make syntax errors.
 The problem is when you're looking at a webpage
 and in that webpage, there's a JavaScript syntax error.
 They decided a long time ago
 not to bother the poor user with a JavaScript syntax error
 because really the person,
 unless you're writing it in the first place,
 the person looking at the screen of amazon.com
 or drchuck.com, if I got a syntax error in drchuck.com,
 why tell you that there's a syntax error?
 So what it actually does is it just like,
 well, I guess I'll stop running the JavaScript
 because it's got a problem,
 but I'm not gonna tell the user,
 which means my page is broken and I don't even know that.
 So it stops and so syntax errors happen
 and it just stops the execution.
 So let's take a look at a little example here,
 a little example where we have two chunks of JavaScript.
 We come in, we got the first one
 and this first one has a syntax error, okay?
 And that means the alert's not gonna work.
 Now what happens is it in effect ignores everything
 after that point.
 If it's executing through a script file,
 it might be defining a bunch of functions.
 If it finds a syntax error a third of the way through,
 the other two thirds don't matter
 because it has stopped parsing that file
 until the end of the script tag.
 And then when it sees a new script tag,
 hope springs eternal and it starts parsing it again.
 And so that's why when this page runs,
 when this page runs, you see first paragraph,
 this goes, blows up, which means it skips down to here,
 then you see two paragraph come out
 and then you see the alert second time.
 You never see any of these alerts
 because that error is on the first line of the JavaScript,
 which invalidates the rest of the JavaScript,
 but until another script tag.
 And sometimes what you're doing,
 you're like including one library, another library,
 and another library, and another library.
 If you have a syntax error in that library
 that you're including,
 most of that library won't actually be activated, right?
 And, but it doesn't mean if you have like five libraries
 that you're loading with five script tags,
 just 'cause the first library has a syntax error,
 it can still load the other four libraries.
 But it's just, it pumps.
 There could be hundreds of lines of code here
 and it all is for naught because it saw a syntax error
 and ignored the rest of it up to the end of that script tag.
 Now, the end user can't see the error.
 So when you're doing software development,
 you gotta put in extra effort.
 'Cause when you're like writing code and hitting refresh,
 writing code and hitting refresh,
 well, yeah, that's the user hitting the refresh
 in the browser, but if you're writing JavaScript,
 you wanna see what's wrong.
 And so we have places that we have to look
 to see if there are actually JavaScript errors in our code.
 And once we start developing JavaScript,
 I assure you that there will be errors in your code.
 There's always errors in my code.
 And so all of these situations,
 whether all these browsers, Firefox, Chrome, Safari,
 they all have some kind of a web developer console
 that you unlock.
 And then you can go, there's always one of these tabs
 that says console.
 And console is all the error messages that are coming up.
 And so if you made that same bit of code
 and you had the console turned on,
 you would see a happy little error
 that says syntax error on line three of that file.
 I mean, it would just run the okays later in the file,
 but it will tell us that.
 So you'll find that once you start developing JavaScript,
 you're making a big mistake
 if you don't have this little developer console open
 almost all the time, at least to the JavaScript console,
 because that's how you debug your JavaScript.
 It'll literally just like silently, you're like,
 hmm, I changed something and nothing happened.
 I changed something and nothing happened.
 I'm going crazy.
 Well, look at the console.
 You changed something,
 but there was a syntax error above it.
 And so it didn't matter what you said after that.
 It really ignores everything after that.
 So that's why it's so important
 to have a debugger console doing all the time.
 Thankfully, all modern browsers
 have a good debugger console.
 In the old days, Firefox was the only one
 that had a thing called Firebug,
 which was this console which had to install it and add it.
 And it's a person wrote it as an open source project.
 And it got so popular that people just put it
 into the browsers rather than making you install it.
 So it was pretty cool.
 So back to debugging,
 there is a function called console.log
 and it allows you to log variables
 and strings and whatever.
 And unlike the alert,
 it just shows up in that console.
 That, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that.
 So you can put it inside of a loop.
 You don't have to press okay.
 It doesn't stop anything.
 It's really more of a debug print, right?
 And so in this particular example,
 you know, it just runs.
 It doesn't stop.
 The alert stops everything.
 And so I use the alert like, what is going on?
 But if I'm really debugging something like in a loop,
 I'll use console.log.
 So it comes in, console.log comes out.
 It says alert.
 I clicked on it.
 So you don't see that.
 The second log comes out and away you go.
 And so this, this is a better debugging mechanism.
 And if you look at systems that I've built,
 when I have a really complex JavaScript,
 I will sometimes leave console.log statements in it.
 So if you use Sakai
 and you're at a school that uses Sakai
 and you do console.log,
 you will see error messages in your production system
 that I left in there because of the parts of the code
 that were so, the JavaScript was so tricky.
 I'm like, I wanna be able to talk to you
 if your stuff breaks.
 And I want any developer to be able to pop this window open
 and get a clue as to why some of the JavaScript stuff
 is breaking, 'cause there's just so much
 complex JavaScript in it.
 And so I leave a few little debugging clues.
 And if you go into the auto grader,
 you can watch this.
 I just like debugging and it's sort of not all that costly.
 I don't put a ton of them in
 'cause then it looks a little sloppy.
 But yeah, I do put a few console logs in.
 So you can use a debugger.
 It's a full featured debugger.
 You can view the source, you can inspect.
 You probably by now have figured out
 how to inspect elements.
 So you can look through the,
 and what you're looking through there
 is the document object model.
 But they also have the full feature debugger
 where if you're looking in the source code,
 you can go on to the line that you're interested in
 and click, and then that will set a break point.
 And what you, but it doesn't,
 but usually the code's already executed.
 So you have to set the break point,
 then you got to refresh the page,
 and it remembers where you set the break point,
 and then it stops it.
 Okay, and so you kind of set the break point
 and then hit refresh, you'll figure it out.
 Because by the time it's all done,
 it can't go back in time.
 It's past that line, so you have to see the line,
 set the break point, refresh the page,
 then it knows to break point, catch the break point
 as it's going by rather than going back in time
 'cause it doesn't remember.
 It can't run time backwards, just forwards.
 So that gives you a little sense of what it is like
 to do JavaScript in the browser.
 And now we're gonna just look at JavaScript
 as if it were a regular programming language.
 And this applies whether it's in the browser,
 in the server, in Vue, or whatever.
 (upbeat music)
