 So now we're going to talk about JavaScript
 as a programming language.
 Now we're just going to talk about the syntax.
 So we'll start out, say, with comments.
 So I love the comments in JavaScript.
 There are two kinds of comments, and they
 have to do with what languages did the influencing.
 And so the slash star, star slash, is a multi-line comment.
 So this is all comment from here all the way to here.
 And you can have new lines.
 This is great for writing documentation.
 That comes from the C language.
 Java also supports it as well.
 And then the C++ language has slash slash
 to the end of the line.
 That's much more like the pound sign comment in Python.
 But I like both of those styles.
 I like using these for documentation sections,
 and I like these for short comments.
 So nice.
 Thank you very much.
 White space and new lines do not matter.
 Statements end in a semicolon.
 It turns out that that's not technically true.
 But if you just pretend that all statements end in a semicolon,
 then if you move to Java, or C++, or C, or PHP,
 then you're not like, oh, when do
 I have to put the semicolon on?
 Well, in those languages, you have
 to put it on just about everywhere.
 So just put semicolons at the end of every line,
 and you can just pretend you're writing C.
 And then when you get to C, you'll be like, oh, this
 is just like JavaScript, even though under the--
 on the implementation, it's very different, very, very
 different.
 So here is just an example of some really nasty JavaScript
 where x equals 3 plus 5 times 4 on two lines,
 and then this line's jammed up and console.log.
 That's OK.
 It just doesn't matter.
 JavaScript and these C-style languages
 just don't care what the white space is.
 They're looking for characters.
 Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, semicolon.
 That must be the end of the line.
 Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, semicolon.
 That's the end of the line.
 So just the new line is just like another space-like character
 ultimately in these languages.
 Variable names are kind of normal.
 They can start with letters.
 I mean, they're letters and numbers and underscore
 and dollar sign, but they're not supposed
 to start with a number, and they are case sensitive.
 Just please-- we use case sometimes
 as a signal because different kinds of variables
 we like either camel case them or all uppercase.
 I use case to signal things.
 And it turns out that because JavaScript sort of saw
 what PHP and Perl looked like, they
 allowed dollar signs at the beginning variables
 because PHP and Perl are the places
 where dollar signs are allowed.
 But when people started writing JavaScript,
 they wanted to be more like Java.
 Java doesn't allow dollar signs in variables.
 And so there was kind of like this unwritten rule, which
 we will come back to, just don't start a variable with dollar
 sign, even though JavaScript allows it.
 Just kind of don't do it.
 It's not cool.
 String constants, single quotes and double quotes
 function the exact same way.
 I like that a lot.
 Stylistically, what I tend to do is I tend to use single quotes
 as much as I can in JavaScript because ultimately,
 double quotes are part of HTML.
 And when I'm mixing my HTML in JavaScript,
 I tend to want to look at it and say
 that single quote is a JavaScript quote versus a HTML
 quote.
 So if we take a look at this little code,
 you see like this text equal JavaScript,
 that's in double quotes.
 And it has to be.
 So the one line and two line, I could use single quotes
 or double quotes for that.
 But for me, I try to use single quotes
 as much as possible when I'm in JavaScript.
 So I can take a look at this code and know HTML JavaScript.
 If I'm in double quotes, I'm generally dealing with HTML.
 And because JavaScript is sometimes writing HTML,
 it's writing double quotes into the document
 because it has to because that's how HTML requires it.
 So I have a single quote string that
 has a double quote in the middle of it
 because I'm writing HTML in JavaScript.
 That'll make more sense to you later.
 So you can do either one, and you'll
 see examples where JavaScript just uses double quotes.
 But I prefer single quotes as much as I possibly can.
 Unumeric constants are pretty much
 like every other language, but there is only one number type.
 In most languages, there's like an integer and a floating
 point.
 Sometimes there's double and float.
 There's different kinds of long integers.
 In JavaScript, I think in a way they were smart.
 And they basically made one type, one numeric type
 called number.
 And so for example, if you take 5/3,
 that is a floating point number, 1.666 repeating forever.
 If you want to turn that into an integer,
 you just truncate it like math.trunc.
 Math is a library that's in JavaScript.
 Now when you get back an x, it's still a floating point number.
 It just is shown as an integer because you've
 chopped off the decimal part.
 And so you have to be careful because they're really
 floating point numbers.
 Every one of them, some of them are shown as integers
 when you print them out.
 But in general, there are no integers in JavaScript.
 So there's a whole bunch of operators, plus, minus,
 multiply, divide, truncate.
 Those are pretty much like every other programming language.
 More operators like the modulo operator.
 Modulo operator is the percent sign.
 And that is the remainder operator.
 So 45 divided by 7 is 6 remainder 3.
 And that remainder, 45, 7 is 6, 42, 3, remainder 3.
 That 3 is what goes there.
 So division with truncation will give you the 6,
 but the remainder will give you the 3.
 And it turns out that that modulo is really quite useful.
 Like if you want to do something every 100th time
 through an iteration, you take the iteration counter,
 like 1, 2, 3.
 And if you modulo 100 and the result is 0, remainder 0,
 it's an even multiple of 100.
 And that means every 100 times you can do something.
 So we like modulo.
 There are side effect operators.
 Oops, come back.
 There are side effect operators.
 K++ says, retrieve K, have it be part of an expression perhaps,
 then add 1 to it, store it back down.
 So if I say K++, it says 3.
 But then afterwards, K has become 4.
 So after it retrieved the K and printed it,
 then it turned it into 4.
 There's very few places that we actually use these.
 And then we use them all the time.
 But in general, you can hurt yourself
 if you write too much of this stuff.
 There is a pre-increment, minus, minus K.
 And that says, subtract 1 from K, and then print it out,
 which is 3.
 And then the 3 goes back into K.
 Then there are some side effect operators.
 J plus equals is the same as J equals J plus 5.
 And the same is true for all these things.
 Actually, that's a typo there, slash equals.
 And so most people do not use these formats.
 I just show them to you in case you ever see some code.
 I always prefer to write my increments and decrements
 and divisions out.
 It's not particularly faster that way.
 It's just a syntax.
 This comes from C. All of these fancy bits
 come from the C language.
 And JavaScript was just-- and Java do the same thing.
 And so those two languages are represented here.
 And so that's why these operators are here.
 Comparison operators.
 All C-style languages, one of the trickiest things
 you've got to realize is that the single equal sign
 is an assignment statement.
 And I like to think of that as changing.
 So the 10 is being stored into the J. To say,
 is J equal to 10?
 This is like a question mark.
 I wish this was like question equals.
 That would be like, is it equal to?
 But that's not what they do.
 They decided double equals was the one that
 was the question mark.
 And that's asking the question, is J equal to 10?
 And it returns a true or a false when it's evaluated.
 So J equals 10 is true.
 J not equal 17.
 That's exclamation equal.
 Again, I wish this was question mark equal.
 But that's-- going back to 1972, I had to catch them and say,
 no, don't make double equals.
 Make question equal.
 Not equal, less than, greater than, less than or equal to.
 Now, there's a special operator.
 And you see this in Python in the is and is not operator.
 So the double equals is a comparison
 with type conversion.
 So it says, can the left side of the double equals, the J,
 be converted eventually to become equal to 0?
 And so in this particular case, J is false.
 So it is of type Boolean.
 But a false can be coerced into 0.
 So false is equal to 0 with some conversion.
 But then, if we want to compare two things in terms of both
 their type and their value with no implicit type conversion,
 if I say, is J triple equals 0?
 That says, is J the same type as 0, which is a number,
 and has the same value?
 Well, J is a Boolean, because it's true or false.
 And so this turns out to be false.
 So J is not triple equals.
 And J is not triple equals true.
 And so you have triple equals and not--
 it's like not equal equal, but I call it not triple equals.
 So there's a whole series of logical operators,
 much like that, that return for you true and falses.
 And so we've got our greater than.
 So we've got double ampersand, which is and.
 So for the whole operation, for the whole expression
 to be true, both sides have to be true.
 So is K greater than 1 and J less than 10?
 And in this case, the answer is yes.
 Is K greater than 10?
 No.
 And is J greater than 10?
 So that's true, but this one's false.
 False and true become false.
 Or is K greater than 10 or J greater than 10?
 No, neither are true, so the result is false.
 And then there is a unary not operator
 that you can put in front.
 That's like saying K greater than 10, well, that's false.
 But then if I apply a not to it, it becomes true.
 String concatenation is a little different than Python.
 It uses the plus operator, but it will convert things
 to string, right?
 So X equals 12 is a number, and I'm adding a number
 to a string, and it's like, meh, I'll convert that
 into a string, and so that 12 becomes a string,
 and you end up with a string that's hello 12 people
 with one, two characters.
 The number 12 is long gone at that point.
 So there is a conversion.
 Normally, if this were in Python,
 you'd say str parentheses to force it to a string.
 The plus is smart enough to automatically convert it.
 You can debate which of those things you prefer,
 and I can come down on either side of it.
 There is something to respect about Python
 that basically says if you want it to be a string,
 you as the programmer should say it.
 Languages that are sort of loosey-goosey
 that do things to make it most convenient,
 like PHP and JavaScript, sometimes can get you
 into a trouble, and this is where you can always tell
 NaN.
 If you see NaN in a user interface anywhere in the web,
 you're like, oh, somebody did a JavaScript calculation
 just like this, and something went wrong,
 'cause that's what happens when additions go wrong.
 We'll see that in a second.
 So variable typing is a little confusing
 because we're using plus.
 Sometimes we're using it for concatenation.
 Sometimes we're using it for addition.
 So in this particular case where we take the string
 one, two, three, and add 10 to it,
 it sees that as a concatenation and gives us back a string.
 But if we say the string one, two, three times one,
 then it converts that to an integer times one,
 and that's 10.
 So it becomes 133, but that is a number.
 But what happens if we take something
 that's not even a number?
 Well, multiply it by one.
 That is not a number.
 And then we add 10 to it, and it's still not a number,
 and this is not a number.
 And that's why you see nan on all these webpages,
 like percent complete, nan.
 And that's because it was adding one
 to something like a fault that wasn't a number
 and couldn't be conversed into a number,
 like a string or something.
 And once you get something that's a nan,
 it's very, very, very sticky.
 But it doesn't blow up.
 It just keeps running and shows you nan
 in your user interface.
 So if a string can't be converted
 because of mathematical operation, you get a nan.
 There is a function called isnan
 that gives you a true/false, like is there a nan?
 Nan is a value.
 It's not the lack of a value.
 Something like null would be a lack of a value,
 or empty in Python would be the lack of a value.
 Isnan is an actual value.
 It's just like a value that's the indication
 within a number that is, it's a number.
 If you divide by two, you get another value
 that's not really a value.
 It's a special value called infinity.
 And if you like add one to infinity, you still get infinity.
 If you subtract one from infinity, you still get infinity.
 There's no amount of ones that you can subtract
 from infinity to get anything less than infinity
 'cause it's like infinity.
 And there's a function called isinfinity
 that lets you know if the variable
 you're working with is infinity.
 So this seems kind of silly,
 but it turns out that in some ways,
 JavaScript has one of the coolest number classes
 because it uses this internal number format
 called IEEE 450 something, 455 or something.
 And it's actually a scientifically thought out,
 really good way to do number calculations.
 And so in some ways, it does a better job
 of flowing point numbers than some other programming
 languages that just kinda do unpredictable things
 at things like infinity and dividing by zero
 or multiplying by an undefined or something.
 So you gotta respect JavaScript
 because they stuck to their guns on numeric calculations
 and they're pure.
 They're the way computer science researchers suggest
 this is the way you do it
 and that's exactly the way you do it.
 Seems a little weird, I make a little fun of it,
 but it's actually pretty cool.
 If you're in an untyped language and you're passed in
 like a variable and you wanna know is this a string
 or is this an array or is this an object,
 there is a unary function,
 which is just takes one parameter type of,
 that's P-I-P-E-O-F, that's the function,
 that's like multiplication or minus sign,
 type of X and that returns a string.
 So type of a number is the string number.
 If we say what is Y, well, the string double Y,
 it's a string and you can ask for a variable
 that doesn't exist yet and that will be undefined.
 And so you can say is this variable defined yet?
 Well, it's not defined yet.
 So this is where you're writing code
 and maybe pass the parameter and you don't know what it is
 and you say is it a string, is it an array or whatever.
 So it's good to be able in an untyped environment
 to take a variable that you might have been given
 by somebody else and check its type.
 So up next, we're gonna talk about functions and arrays.
 (upbeat music)
