 So now we're going to talk about JavaScript functions
 and JavaScript arrays.
 So functions use the function keyword.
 Unlike Python, this would be like in the DEF,
 this would be like DEF in Python.
 And so we basically say function and then
 give the name of a function and then the parameters
 to the function.
 And then you have a curly brace to start the function
 and then end the function.
 This is over here.
 And then you have return to return the resulting value.
 And that return defines the return value
 that's going to be used in some expression.
 So you're cruising along, you're in the middle of an expression,
 you encounter a function, it calls the function, runs the call,
 and then the return value is what
 is the residual that's placed in that plus.
 So whatever that value is, in this case,
 it's going to add 4 and 5 and end up with 9
 as the result, and prod equals 9.
 So the functions, other than that,
 are like most programming languages,
 except when it comes to global variables.
 And so most of the time when you're working with a function,
 every variable that you define inside the function
 is local to that function.
 And so if you use the same variable outside the function,
 now I'm doing this two lines away,
 but really often this function's inside of a library
 and it doesn't even know what variables are
 being used outside of it.
 And so by default, these two are the same.
 And I'm not really familiar of a lot of other programming
 languages where the default is that that's
 kind of a global variable if you don't make it worse.
 It depends on whether this global variable is defined
 before or after turn 2.
 In this case, I'm defining the global variable before,
 and I say nothing special about gl, and so it's global.
 And so I set it to 123, then I call this function,
 and it sets it to 456.
 And when we come back from the function, it's 456.
 So that's kind of weird.
 It's this weird kind of super global
 by default, which is not the way we usually
 like to run functions.
 So what we do, and it's really weird.
 There's no other programming language that makes you say,
 don't be global.
 Most other programming languages,
 if they have a global capability and not all of them do,
 they're like, this is the weird one that's global
 and everything else is local.
 What you do is if you don't say it's local,
 it's going to be global.
 So the var keyword basically says, it's local.
 It's just, this is a variable and it's local.
 And so I can say, var gl equals 456.
 That means that that variable has no effect
 outside the function, i.e. the function lives
 in its own little silo, which is the way
 most functions usually work unless we explicitly
 bust out of the little silo.
 So in this case, if we do gl equals 123,
 then we call function check, and we look at gl,
 even though inside a function there's a gl that's 456,
 not the same gl, and so we get 123
 when it's all said and done.
 So that's really quite nice.
 But you do put a lot of vars in,
 and one of my biggest bugs when I write JavaScript
 is to forget to put the var in.
 So I now just kind of been punished enough to know,
 always put the var in so you get what you kind of expect
 as a default in most other programming languages
 that all variables that are defined inside of a function
 are local unless you're very explicitly doing otherwise.
 JavaScript has arrays.
 They look a lot like Python lists.
 So here we have an array that's three strings.
 JavaScript has an associative structure,
 but it's not an associative array,
 and it's more like a dictionary, but it's not.
 It's an object.
 Objects can be many, many things,
 and we'll talk a bunch, we'll have a whole lecture
 on nothing but objects.
 But right now they kind of look like a dictionary.
 Key, value, pair, key, value, pair.
 Key is name, value is chuck.
 Key is class, value is dj for e.
 And so when you print that out, away you go.
 Now, you can say a sub zero, which gives you x,
 which is that first element,
 and you can say b sub quote, name, quote.
 You can do that.
 Another way to say that is b dot name.
 Those two syntaxes, and this confused the heck out of me
 when I was first learning JavaScript,
 those two syntaxes mean the same thing.
 They both are saying look up an attribute
 of the object b that's named name.
 And again, equivalently, they are the same thing,
 even though for every other language you ever look at,
 you think those are very different creatures,
 but not so in JavaScript.
 And it has to do with the fact that b is an object.
 It is an object.
 And so objects are the associative structures,
 but they're even more powerful than associative arrays
 are in some languages, like directories.
 Linear arrays, you can make linear arrays.
 You can fill them up a couple different ways.
 You can either fill them up, you know,
 we start and make an array,
 and we can push some elements in.
 I don't like the name push, I like append better.
 That would be what we would say if we were in Python,
 if this were a list, but it works.
 Push kind of pushes onto the end.
 Normally push means push onto the beginning,
 but in computer science, push usually means push down,
 not append, but so I think Python has a JavaScript there
 where we say append in Python, we say push in JavaScript,
 or we can just fill it up with the array,
 array sub zero and array sub one,
 and then we can fill up a nice linear array
 if we want, and remember, in JavaScript,
 arrays are arrays, they're not dictionaries,
 they are lists.
 In Python, Python has lists and dictionaries,
 and JavaScript has arrays and objects.
 There's other syntaxes for making arrays.
 You can say array and then just have a list of things
 that make up the array, and you get an array,
 or you just use the constant form, that square brackets,
 and this looks exactly like how we would do it in Python,
 and so that works, so in that particular line,
 you can write Python in JavaScript if you so desire.
 Up next, we're gonna talk about control structures.
 (upbeat music)
