 Hello. Welcome to Django for Everybody. My name is Charles Severance and I've developed these materials that I hope you find useful.
 So one of the things I like to do whenever I start teaching a class is explain why I chose to teach this material.
 In particular, why Django? To explain why Django, I have to go back into the past a little bit.
 I have been teaching here at the School of Information, University of Michigan, since 2007, I've been teaching web development.
 And if we go all the way back to the beginning, I think we started with PHP, then we did Ruby on Rails, and then we did Google App Engine.
 I even wrote a textbook for O'Reilly and Associates about Google App Engine. We used that textbook for a while.
 It was based on Django 1.0 and then they changed Google App Engine and I didn't like that because it broke my book.
 And then we switched to PHP and then we did Flask and then we did Django. So there's a whole litany of different web development frameworks we've used over the years.
 And that's kind of how web development is. There's always something new, always something different.
 So right before I was teaching Django for everybody, I was teaching PHP and I had been teaching that for five years and I just love that class.
 We teach Python for most of our beginning students and just that's a great first language.
 That course that I built that taught Python to beginners evolved into the course Python for Everybody, which is one of the most popular programming courses in the world.
 And one of the things that I wanted to do was teach a second language, not just more Python, so that's why I really like teaching PHP.
 And I developed that course for five years, but it wasn't just a PHP class. It was HTML, it's CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, PHP.
 And I love teaching that class, but at some point the curriculum committee wanted it to be Python across the board.
 I love that course and I turned it into web applications for everybody and that's available also online.
 And so I had a year to convert from PHP to Python. And so during that year I asked myself the question, would I teach Flask or Django?
 And I had a semester sabbatical and during that time someone taught the class in Flask.
 And I looked at what they were accomplishing in the 15th week of the Flask class and I'm like, oh, there's so much low level stuff you have to learn.
 And so I was like, I'm not sure I like Flask, but I had a year. So I asked everyone I knew who was pretty sharp.
 I said, would you prefer Flask or Django? And the strange thing is I got different answers.
 Half the people said Flask is great, Django is terrible, and the other half the people said Django is great, Flask is terrible, which was inconclusive.
 And then I changed the question. I said, if you were going to teach only one of Flask or Django, which one would you teach first?
 And at that point, Django was pretty much the consensus agreement.
 And that's because Flask is a very powerful tool in the hands of strong developers.
 So if you're teaching, taking a React class or a Progressive Web Applications class and you just want kind of a little back end and you know what you're doing,
 Flask is great because you whip up a little microservice and away it goes.
 But Django, if you don't know anything, Django gives you a road to follow. You go down this road and you will learn and you will build something.
 And so I started developing this class. It took me a couple of years to get it right. I iterate a lot.
 I'm an engineer and I love to iterate. After a couple of years, I said, OK, I think I like it.
 And so I turned it into this DJ for E, Django for everybody. It became a MOOC.
 And so I'm really impressed at how far we get.
 And the reason is, is with Django, because there's kind of a road and you follow the road.
 At the end, my students have a nicely working website that has Ajax working, has pictures working, has single sign-on using OAuth working and all these things.
 And we learn about Bootstrap and a whole bunch of things.
 And if you look at their website, you know, it's a beginner, but it is a complete website.
 And because we use Python Anywhere, they are hosting it from the first week.
 So every assignment is in a hosted Python Anywhere instance of Django for them.
 And so they're learning how to host. And I think that's of all the things I've taught up to this point.
 I never, other than Google App Engine, I never could get the students to have in effect a URL at the end of the course.
 This is a great second class, once you kind of know Python, to learn how to use Python to do something.
 It's advanced Python. It's using things that you might have seen in initial Python class, but not really developed skill in.
 And the particular skill that this class really is going to teach you is object oriented programming.
 And I'll just say, object oriented programming is probably one of the most important concepts in programming.
 And it's also the most difficult concept to teach and learn.
 That's because if you just take a class and you have a chapter on object orientation, you'll see a bunch of syntax.
 But you do not know why you're using that syntax.
 Whereas in Django, on the first day you're building objects.
 Django itself is an object and you're like overriding bits and pieces inside of this big object.
 And then there's objects within objects.
 And so it's a wonderful, wonderful way to teach object oriented programming in Django.
 And so in this class, I review Python's object oriented programming.
 I feature all of the use of objects in Django when I say object many, many times, just like I'm saying in this little intro video.
 But then we also later look at JavaScript.
 And then we look at object oriented programming in JavaScript as well.
 And they're different.
 The execution model for Python and the execution model for JavaScript object orientation is a little bit different.
 And so for me, that sort of compare and contrast is a really great opportunity as a teacher
 to get students to understand the principles of object orientation and not be just looking at the various syntaxes.
 So with that, welcome to a course that I think is a great course and I hope that you enjoy it.
 And I wish you luck.
 Take your time.
 Don't rush.
 These kind of learning experiences are precious.
 And take your time and learn everything.
 And I wish you nothing but the best.
 And I hope to see you online.
 Cheers.
 [music]
