 I mentioned that JavaScript owns the document-object model.
 The document-object model is what we see when we're looking at the browser.
 A browser parses the HTML, sometimes our JavaScript writes it, and then creates this object we
 call the document-object model, which is then displayed to the user through a window.
 A window is the subset of the document-object model.
 In whatever JavaScript we write, we can read, manipulate, and update the DOM.
 And as soon as the DOM is updated, the user sees the updates through the window.
 And we can also just go into the debugger and directly manipulate the document-object
 model.
 So if we go back to the 01 NoScript, there's no JavaScript in here.
 So you just go, it shows you a header and a paragraph, and that's the document-object
 model.
 But you'll note that if you go into Inspect Element and then go into that paragraph tag,
 you can change and add the word cool.
 In a sense, the debugger is JavaScript, and you can actually type JavaScript commands into
 the debugger if you do the right thing.
 But the debugger is owning the document-object model as well.
 And so you simply can change the document-object model.
 And literally, it changes the UI, but truly the document-object model changes.
 So you can even change the kind of a tag you're dealing with.
 You could turn this into an anchor tag.
 You could add some hrefs.
 You can change the document-object model.
 You're displayed-- it just-- you change it, and you see it.
 Now, I mentioned this thing called the window.
 There are two sort of foundational objects in JavaScript in the browser.
 There's the DOM.
 And the DOM is an abstraction.
 It is a structured hierarchy of tags.
 We call them elements.
 The window is how we see it.
 So you can think of this picture that I've been showing you, parsing the response, running
 some JavaScript, and tweaking the document-object model, and showing it to the user.
 And if you change the document-object model, it's immediately updated.
 On the left, that's kind of an oversimplification, because the way we actually view the document-object
 model is through the window.
 The window is what's on your screen, and probably the most easy way to demonstrate this is to
 understand that the document-object model could be very large, and the window could
 be very small.
 And the document-object model doesn't change, and you can resize the window back and forth.
 So sometimes you see scroll bars.
 The scroll bar is not a notion in the document-object model.
 It's a notion in the window.
 The window has a certain height.
 The document-object model may or may not completely fit in the window, and that has to do with
 the window height and so scroll bars.
 And so for example, if you look at 06height.html, all it does is puts out the header, puts out
 the paragraph, and then prints out window height and window width, window.innerHeight
 and window.innerWidth.
 These are the height of the window, not the document-object model, but the window through
 which we're viewing it.
 And so if you show this page with the debugger turned on with a really tiny window, it says
 that the height is 116.
 If you make the window bigger and hit reload, it says the height's 256.
 So in JavaScript, we can ask questions about the window, and we can do things to the window.
 One thing we could do is we could scroll it up and down, and that's actually a common
 thing to do in JavaScript.
 If you have a big document-object model, and you've got a scroll window, and you want to
 show the user a particular thing, like go to bottom, JavaScript can scroll the window
 down to the bottom or up or down.
 I don't get those right very well.
 But we can control the window.
 In this case, we're simply asking it how tall you are and how wide you are, but we can also
 control it.
 And so if we take a look now and we make 07scroll.htm, we can see that we have nine paragraphs
 and a header.
 That is the actual content.
 And if we have a tall window, we can see the whole document.
 But if we make the window smaller, then we can only see a subset of the document-object
 model.
 And so the window height changes, and if you look, you now have a scroll bar.
 And what does the scroll bar do?
 Well, it just takes and moves the document-object model up and down.
 Well, it moves the part of the document-object, our view to the document-object model up and
 down.
 And if you're doing an inspect element in some browsers, you will see that it's telling
 us with little kind of annotations that the body is being scrolled right now, and up through
 paragraph four is overflowed off the screen up, and paragraph seven, eight, and nine have
 overflowed and they've gone off the screen below.
 Now if you play with this and you resize it and refresh it and resize it and refresh it,
 you'll see this whole-- I mean, on the left, the whole thing shows, and so body is not indicated
 as the scrollable element, and the headers not overflow, et cetera.
 So you can play with this, but play with it with different sizes, refresh it, and then
 inspect element, and watch how the scroll, the overflow, and the scroll bar-- and in
 this case, I'm not printing out height, but you would be seeing that the height would
 actually change.
 So one of the things that we're going to do next is we're going to modify the document-object
 model in JavaScript.
