 Now let's talk about browser events.
 We've been talking about events all along.
 We have done an on-click handler, which is a shortcut
 to, in effect, register a click event handler,
 but we're just doing it with the shortcut
 of the on-click attribute.
 And then when we do a set timeout,
 we're actually creating a timer event.
 So the timer starts, and then when the timer expires,
 the event fires, and our code is run.
 So we've been doing this all along.
 But there is an entire event registration system
 inside the browser.
 And we can say, I would like to register an event
 for something to happen on this tag,
 and we can hook things in all over the place.
 And there's a separate event registration system.
 On-click is like a shortcut using an attribute
 that eventually registers the event on our behalf.
 And that's why you see the little event
 when you do the inspect element.
 And so if we take a look at the code here,
 we're going to do the same thing that we did in 03event.htm,
 which we've seen before.
 And then we're going to do it again in 10-event.htm.
 And we're going to show the more generic way of doing it.
 So in 03event.htm, we have an on-click method.
 We've done this before.
 And it calls my func when that method is clicked.
 And if you do an inspect element,
 you see that that anchor tag has an event on it.
 The kind of more pure way to do it,
 where we're really explicitly registering the event--
 these two things are front-ends and purposes equivalent--
 is we're going to, instead of having the on-click method
 on the anchor tag, we're going to have an ID equals zap.
 And again, we have to put the ID on
 so we can get our hands on it inside JavaScript.
 So we create an H1 and a paragraph
 with an anchor tag in it.
 Then we start our JavaScript.
 And the JavaScript starts by defining a function,
 doesn't do anything.
 It just defines the function.
 And then we call document.getElementByIdZap.
 Now, that is grabbing that anchor tag.
 And then it calls an element method called addEventListener.
 And it's got two parameters.
 The first parameter is I'm interested in the click event.
 I want to listen for click events.
 And when click events happen, call my func.
 Now, again, first-class functions,
 there's no parentheses on my func.
 That is a function reference that we defined three lines
 earlier.
 And so it accomplishes the same thing.
 And if we look at 10event.htm and we take a look at it,
 you see that the anchor tag with the ID of zap
 doesn't have an on-click on it, but it has a registered event.
 And that's because we registered the event using JavaScript.
 Now, if we click on it, it does the exact same thing.
 That event is triggered.
 It looks up and says, well, when a click happens,
 I'm supposed to call my func.
 And so this notion of adding event listeners
 is a more general purpose notion than simply on-click.
 I like to think of on-click as a shortcut to registering it.
 Now, you might say it's a lot shorter.
 And one thing about JavaScript is it's a bit wordy at times,
 right?
 Document.getEventById.addEventListener,
 a lot of JavaScript.
 But it does what you need it to do.
 Now, I'm not saying you shouldn't use on-click,
 but I want to show you the more general way of doing it.
 There are other kinds of events that we can connect to.
 And so in this case, I'm going to just have a header and no
 paragraph.
 And then in my JavaScript, I'm going to create a function.
 And in that function, I'm going to log the current height
 and width of the window.
 When this function is called, it's only going to log it.
 Now, what I'm going to say is window.addEventListener.
 Now, remember, document.addEventListener,
 that's a different thing, right?
 Window.addEventListener is adding an event to the window.
 Remember how the window is the thing
 that gets larger and smaller and has scrollbars, et cetera.
 So I'm saying I would like to register a bit of my code
 to be called every time the window is resized.
 That's what quote resized quote is.
 My func is to think to call.
 So now what happens is you display this,
 and then you start changing the size of the window.
 And on your console log, it's zoom, you know?
 Window height, 135, 136, 137.
 So as you're making that window larger and smaller,
 your code is being called every time.
 Now, why might you want to do this?
 Well, one of the big things in website design
 is to do what's called responsive design.
 And that's as the thing gets narrower or higher or smaller,
 like mobile, you want to change the UI.
 You might have in a big screen,
 you might have a more complex UI.
 And then on a small screen,
 you might want to have a more narrow UI.
 Now, often things like Bootstrap
 take care of all this for us,
 but still Bootstrap needs to get their hands
 on the resize event so they know,
 whoa, the screen size changed.
 So I need to kind of tweak the markup a little bit.
 So this is an example of a window event
 that allows you to render an opinion
 as to what you want to happen every time the screen resizes.
 Now, another issue that's an important event to know about
 is what's called the content load complete event.
 Modern webpages are very, very complex.
 I mean, the things I've been showing you
 in this series of lectures are simple
 because I want you to be able to see them on a slide,
 but real webpages with menus and pretty pictures
 and colors and spinners, all that stuff, right?
 There's so many things.
 You got to download the HTML,
 then you got a bunch of CSS
 and some images and JavaScript libraries.
 And so sometimes you're going to just get like 100 assets
 when you download a page.
 The first one is the HTML.
 And so the problem is, is it can take a while
 for all these things to get orchestrated by the browser.
 It reads the HTML, it sees a CSS, it loads the CSS,
 it sees a JavaScript thing,
 loads the JavaScript, it da-da-da-da,
 and then it's got some images and it takes some time
 and it does this all interleaved
 and in parallel.
 And eventually you want to know, are you done yet?
 Or just, are you done?
 And so if we take a look at a typical,
 at the page of Django for Everybody,
 we see about 30 requests and many requests.
 And you'd like to know when that's all done
 because you can't write JavaScript
 that references a tag that doesn't exist yet.
 Or if you have, you want to write JavaScript
 that does something to an image,
 like changes its size or checks something,
 or hides it or shows it.
 You got to wait till the image is there
 before you start messing with it, right?
 So there is a special event.
 It's pretty simple.
 And in this, you use a script tag near the end of your body.
 So, we have a function, MyFunk,
 and in that function, the console log, the DOM is landed.
 And then we're going to add event listener.
 And this is a document event
 because this is DOM content loaded.
 Not window, but DOM content.
 Document add event listener.
 The event name is DOM content loaded.
 That's a hard-coded string.
 And I say, please call my function
 when all the files have been loaded
 and we're ready and the user can see the page.
 And so in this one, it's really short.
 It's just that that console,
 the MyFunk happens after the content is loaded
 and after all the derivative things have been loaded,
 et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
