 - Hello and welcome to our lecture on SQL.
 So this is a very, very short introduction to SQL.
 I love SQL, I was talking to a student the other day
 and they were like, "SQL's my favorite language."
 And I said, "I have to agree that SQL
 "is my favorite language, too."
 Because SQL is so beautiful,
 you don't even need to write loops in SQL.
 We write loops in languages like Python
 just because we have to.
 The problem is, is that SQL is just, is perfect,
 but it's not the way we could write something
 as complex as Linux or Python.
 And so SQL's not really the way computers think.
 We have these things called database engines.
 And these database engines make things work
 really, really well.
 And so, SQL is a great way to organize data,
 but a lot of work has gone into keeping that data organized
 and making it simple.
 So there's a, it's like there's this abstraction
 and it's a lot of work to make that abstraction work.
 So I want to start out with a little bit of history,
 sort of before databases.
 And you might think, "Well, before databases,
 "how could that be?"
 Well, you know, it's in the old days
 and if you watch old computer, movies featuring computers,
 you see pictures that have these,
 you see pictures that have these tape machines
 in the background and they're spinning.
 And the spinning of the tape machine is the sort of
 physical manifestation of computation.
 And it had to do with the fact that in the old days,
 computers did not have enough data
 to store all of their data in the memory or on a disk.
 We didn't even have disks in the early days.
 In the early days, tapes were what we had.
 And we used kind of a variation of audio tapes.
 And instead of on audio, they contained data, zeros and ones.
 And so the way things would work in the old days
 so that you could have a database, as it were,
 was the database was all of your data recorded onto a tape.
 And the key thing to a tape is that it was a physical thing
 and so you had to rewind it and go forwards and backwards.
 And most of you probably never even have seen a cassette tape
 or a track tape or a reel-to-reel tape.
 But it's a physical, long, thousand foot piece of plastic
 and to get the data at the end,
 you had to spin it until you got there.
 And so it wasn't what we call random access,
 which means that in a random access,
 whether it's memory or the disk drive,
 random access allows you to get to any place
 roughly in a fixed amount of time.
 Whereas if you're close to something on a tape,
 you can get to it very quickly.
 If you're far away, you gotta go, "Boo!"
 and then wait and then come back.
 So this led to a pattern where every night,
 we would take the tape from yesterday's account balances.
 Let's just say we're a bank
 and we're people coming up the window,
 putting in money, taking out money.
 And then what we would do
 is we would put all of the transactions,
 sometimes on physically punched cards,
 and then we would sort them, right?
 And let's just say we have 26 accounts
 and you know, person C shows up with a little,
 you know, adds $10 and person F shows up
 and subtracts $10 and et cetera, et cetera.
 And then what we would have at night,
 we would get these all sorted
 and there were physical machines
 that would actually sort these in the earliest of days.
 And then we would have the old balance A, B, C, D, E, F
 sitting on a tape in order, sorted in order.
 And we would start a process after the bank closed
 where we would read the first record off the tape, like A.
 We would read the first transaction off the cards
 and we would compare them.
 And if the tape was earlier than the transaction or lower,
 we would just copy it.
 So we'd copy it.
 And then so the B would compare to the C
 and B would get copied and then C would come across.
 And then we'd realize that the C data,
 we would have to update the C data
 and add $10 to the balance.
 And then we'd write that.
 And you'll notice as we're writing this,
 we are sorting, it's in sorted order.
 Then we would copy D, we have nothing for D
 and it would just get copied.
 We copy E, we'd have nothing for E
 and it would just get copied.
 And then we would have, oops,
 forgot to put F on this picture.
 We would have F and we'd subtract 10 and we would copy it.
 And then we would be done.
 We would be done with the kind of stuff
 that we had to do that night.
 And then what we would do is we'd have this new updated data
 that was all sorted in account order.
 And then the next night we would move the tape,
 the new would be the old tape
 and we would do it over and over and over again.
 And sometimes these processes would run for four or five
 hours 'cause the tapes were long
 or it got to be multiple tapes.
 And so a lot of computing was done sort of
 after the banks closed at five o'clock.
 Then a group of people would come in.
 We called them operators and they would mount these tapes
 and run these jobs and just sit there
 and watch these tapes spin as the data was being copied
 from one to the other.
 And so, yeah, that's pretty cool.
 Thankfully, that's not how we do it anymore.
 The thing that made it so we don't have to do this
 is the invention of disk drives.
 And disk drives are magnetic media just like tape drives,
 but the difference was is they were
 on these spinning platters.
 And so what you could do is the data was
 in series of concentric circles on these platters
 and then you had a head that could move in and out rapidly.
 And so the speed at which you could access data
 was a combination with the speed at which the head
 could move to a certain cylinder
 and you had to wait until the data came around.
 And so sometimes you would have a, you know,
 5,400 revolution per minute.
 So that means that 5,400, 5,000 times per minute,
 which is 100 times a second.
 Can I get there?
 Yeah, 100 times a second.
 Yeah, 100 times a second.
 100 times a second, you'd wait a hundredth of a second
 for it.
 And so this is way better than waiting
 like a minute and a half, two minutes,
 even 10 minutes to spin up a tape.
 And so the problem was is then we're like, okay,
 now that we have this wonderful technology
 and we can store all of our nightly data on a disk
 'cause it's enough space, how do we build technology
 to make really good use of this?
 And a lot of research, a lot of computer science,
 a lot of vendor research went into understanding
 how to best use this new disk thing.
 I remember talking to people like,
 'cause we used to use floppy disk works
 where they were much slower so they didn't go 5,400.
 So it might take a quarter of a second to move the head
 and it might take almost a second to spin it around,
 which was still way faster than 10 minutes, right?
 So it's like about a second to get to anywhere
 on a floppy disk.
 And we would build approaches to storing data
 and we would start with this physical thing
 and you would hear it grunting and moving
 and grunting and moving.
 And then you would come up with a better way
 to store the data and then it'd grunt and move less
 and your thing would go faster.
 So this was like a research thing.
 It was like, it was good old days
 when computers actually made noises
 and you could, it could change your code inside computers.
 And the first thing of course we did was just took
 those sequential master updates and put them on,
 but that turned out to not be the best.
 And that was sort of the researches,
 not just how can we do what we used to do on data
 that couldn't be random accessed, randomly accessed,
 and instead say let's take advantage of it.
 And so a lot of research, a lot of vendors,
 there was a lot of very expensive software
 that people bought to say, look, you know,
 you're a bank and you really and truly wanna,
 you know, know how this works.
 And so what happened was is in the 60s and 70s,
 the computer vendors were fighting
 and they would come up with a technique
 which, you know, compared to our current database technique
 was just trivially simple.
 But it took a lot of work back then.
 And they would fight with all the other computer vendors
 and they would say our index sequential mechanism is better
 and vendor two would say our network approach is better.
 And then they would sit and they would sort of struggle
 with each other and then the poor customers would be like,
 I don't even know what you're talking about.
 And so then they would just buy the stuff from the vendor
 who took them out to golf or the best lunch
 or took them on a trip to Florida.
 And then they would just, you know, adapt to whatever that
 vendor did.
 And so it was really kind of scary because we were moving
 into a place where you were locked into a vendor.
 And then once you're locked into a vendor,
 you're in bad shape.
 And so the US government in particular had a ton of money
 and were buying tons of computers, both, you know,
 for normal data processing and for strategic things like,
 you know, military stuff.
 And so they were buying tons of computers and they knew
 that these vendors, if they got to the point
 where they locked them into a single vendor,
 that the vendor would just be able to dictate the price.
 And so the federal government through NIST,
 the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
 decided that databases needed a standard.
 They needed a way so that we could talk to any database
 from any vendor using the same technique
 and not have to, you know, do one vendor.
 And then if you switched vendors,
 you had to completely rewrite your software.
 And so they didn't, the NIST didn't specify how this
 abstraction, the standard was going to work.
 They just brought the vendors in and said,
 we're gonna stop using your software if you don't come up
 with a standard.
 And it was a perfect time because even though the vendors
 thought they had everything was perfect and wonderful,
 there was a lot of upside.
 And in particular, there was this concept of relational
 databases, which back then was more of a mathematical theory
 of a better way to store and retrieve data than it was
 a practically implemented available technology.
 And so SQL, and this is Liz Fong, who I went and I did
 an interview at NIST.
 She talks about the early days, it's a great interview.
 The early days of how this SQL standard really made so much
 sense and really fixed the industry and got the industry
 working really nicely and I recommend that you take a look
 at this video, just so you can kind of see.
 Now, what SQL basically said was, is that let's not worry
 so much about where that data is actually on disk.
 Because the earlier database approaches were, we programmers
 would know that there was cylinders and positions and we
 would place things in certain ways and we would make indexes
 and we would look at the indexes ourselves.
 So all kind of different things, we would read to one place
 on the disk and that would have an address of the next place
 we're supposed to read on the disk.
 And they said, you know what, let's not worry so much
 about the physical storage structure on the disk.
 But instead, let's come up with a language by which we can
 express what we want to read, write, update, and delete
 on the disk in a really simple language.
 And then we can build a piece of software that there could be
 many disk formats underneath that and then we could all
 sort of just use this language and you could buy vendor A
 and use this language and vendor B and use this language
 and then you could even benchmark it and say, here's a bunch
 of stuff in this language, which vendor can run this faster?
 And so the NIST also had a series of benchmarks, TPC,
 or some of the benchmarks.
 And so what they did is they basically made it so that this
 was like a beautiful and simple language.
 And it's what we call SQL, I think at some point
 it was called the Simple Query Language.
 And it is the language that we use to talk to databases.
 And the interesting thing is what SQL allowed us to do,
 really in the '60s and '70s when it first came out,
 was to talk to the old style databases,
 like index sequential and network style databases.
 And as this new form called relational databases,
 which had like this awesome mathematical underpinning,
 but was implemented badly in the first time,
 we could just say, oh, we're kind of, this is all,
 when the performance of relational databases
 got to the point where it was as good
 as the other databases, then we could just switch
 and we could talk the same SQL.
 So it allowed an amazing innovation over a 10
 or even 15 year period where the abstraction
 allowed us to improve databases in a wonderful way
 without really having to change how we as programmers
 used them.
 Pretty dang awesome, I'll be honest.
 And so I've been talking about this idea
 of relational databases and relational databases,
 and I'll admit that when I first saw relational databases
 in the early 1980s, I'm like, this is crap.
 Because again, I could hear floppy disks
 and I knew that we were moving the thing
 and I had so much awareness of what was going on
 and I loved that awareness.
 And the relational databases sort of like hid that,
 hid what was going on behind this layer
 and it turned out that whenever I used it,
 it was slower 'cause it wasn't yet clever.
 And so relational databases started out
 as a mathematical idea as the theoretical best way
 to represent networks of data with columns and rows
 and connections and joins and we'll talk about
 all that eventually.
 And it was a beautiful idea and the mathematics was right.
 It just took a long time to get to the point
 where it turned, the superior mathematics
 of relational databases worked out better
 than the highly cleverly optimized
 previous generation database systems.
 So there's a lot of common database systems
 that you'll run across.
 Some of them are open source, some of them are commercial.
 Postgres and MySQL are open source.
 Postgres is probably the more intricate
 and complex and rich.
 Oracle is a intricate, complex and rich database
 that's available for lots and lots of money.
 And Microsoft has a database called SQL Server.
 And all these databases that we're seeing evolved
 in a sense after the SQL spec existed.
 So they just kind of built SQL.
 There was legacy databases that kind of learned SQL.
 And there's lots of other databases.
 SQLite is what we're actually gonna use with this course
 and it's super cool, super fast.
 And on your cell phone,
 you probably have 40 copies of SQLite.
 And in your car, you probably have 40 copies of SQLite
 'cause it's a real tiny embedded database.
 It's not really good for a production scale
 when you got 100 users simultaneously hitting a website.
 Postgres, MySQL or Oracle or SQL Server
 are really kind of online multi-processing data,
 real multi-processing databases.
 But SQLite is great because it's really simple.
 It stores everything in one file.
 We can move the file around, et cetera.
 So I love SQLite and in this class and in this thing,
 we're gonna talk about SQLite,
 but everything we talk about
 applies to all of these different database systems.
 So the first thing that you've gotta do
 when you are gonna work with a database
 is you gotta come up with a contract
 between you and the database
 as to what the shape of the columns are,
 how wide the columns are,
 what kind of data you're gonna store in this.
 And it then informs how the database software
 is going to structure that database like on the disk.
 And part of what you're doing
 is you're allowing the database software,
 MySQL or Postgres or SQLite,
 to super optimize its storage.
 I mean, it's so much smarter than you.
 Something like Oracle or MySQL or Postgres
 probably represents a billion dollars, if not more,
 of research and development
 and about the best way to store and retrieve data.
 And you just don't even need to know any of that.
 You just say, look, I'm gonna have these columns,
 it's gonna have 100 characters of text,
 then I'm gonna have an integer
 and then a floating point number,
 then 3,000 characters of text,
 and you worry about all that detail.
 But the key is, is if you just say,
 ah, I'll store anything I want,
 then it can't optimize.
 And so there's this thing where you have to
 make a contract at the beginning and say,
 this is exactly how I'm gonna lay out the data
 as I talk to the database system.
 And then you can figure out how to lay out the data
 in the actual disk.
 And so that's called the schema or the database model.
 And building a database model is itself a cool thing.
 So if you're building a complex application,
 you have these models and they have connections
 and we'll eventually talk about all that stuff.
 But it's a critical thing to say that that's a contract
 between you and the database software
 so the database software can optimize
 the storage of the database.
 Now once you have given the schema,
 then you can write queries that, you know,
 depend on that schema.
 So you might have a column called email
 and a column called name.
 And then you can insert data into the database
 using that schema.
 You can retrieve data using the schema.
 You can change data sort of somewhere
 deep inside the database.
 And then you can delete data.
 Hang on a sec.
 Whoa, hi there.
 What are you doing down there?
 Oh, dang it.
 Sorry, sorry.
 You are a bad creature.
 Look at that.
 I was wondering what that noise was.
 Come here, come here, come here.
 I gotta introduce you to all these folks.
 Come here, come here.
 You are not behaving.
 So this is Shelby.
 Hi Shelby.
 This is Shelby.
 This is my puppy.
 I'm trying to keep her out of the cage
 and let her sit and get by my feet.
 And she's got some chew toys.
 Hi Shelby.
 This is Shelby and she is interrupting.
 You're interrupting my lecture, but you're cute.
 So quit chewing on a pen.
 Chew on your chew toys that I gave you, okay?
 Let me get through this lecture.
 Okay, you can get down.
 Just quit chewing on a...
 Sorry about that.
 Dog introduction, dog interruption.
 I was just hearing chewing noises
 and I thought I took everything
 but then there was one pen on the floor.
 And so the pen, poor pen, meets Mr. Puppy.
 Oh well.
 Okay, where was I?
 SQL, CRUD, create, read, update and delete data.
 And so our next step is to actually do some SQL
 and create a database.
 (upbeat music)
