 - Hello, welcome to a simple demonstration.
 Today we're gonna go through one of the handouts
 of running some of the command line SQLite commands.
 And this is just a flat text file.
 It's kinda easy, 'cause you can sort of
 cut and paste everything, so it's not too bad.
 So here we are in my Python Anywhere.
 I'm gonna start a bash console.
 And I'm gonna do this whole thing.
 I've got my Django stuff here.
 Hang on, let me line this up a little better
 so you can see it.
 There we go.
 So here's my Django.
 I'm in my home directory.
 I'm gonna remove, 'cause I did this before, zip SQLite.
 And so this is, we're just gonna do this on a silly file.
 I'm not gonna go into any of my Django projects
 or anything like that.
 I'm just gonna make a file to use SQLite.
 So the command to start SQLite
 is a command line SQLite3, if it's installed on your system.
 And this is gonna do all the database storage
 in a file named zip.sqlite3.
 So now we're in the command line.
 And you can look up, I've got some documentation
 on the different things.
 There are several kinds of command line.
 One is to show the output in column form
 for the select statements, so we'll turn that on.
 Now this is our first SQL statement.
 We're gonna create a table with users.
 This ID long string, that assigns a unique
 increasing number to every row that we put in.
 And the name and email are just columns that have text.
 Okay.
 And so, if we are successful, this is a continuation
 because we didn't put the semicolon, so it keeps on going.
 And so now we can ask.tables.
 And we see that we have a single table.
 We can ask what the shape of that,
 which is just gonna echo.
 And we can ask what shape that is.
 Now let's do some simple.
 So the insert statement in SQL, basically insert into,
 it's a keyword.
 Users is the name of a table in our database.
 Name email are the column names, and then values,
 there's a one-to-one correspondence between
 like chuck and name, and csev@umich.edu and email.
 And so I have a number of different insert statements.
 SQL statements in this command line end with a semicolon.
 And so that added a row.
 We can take a look with this select statement
 at what we've got.
 So we see one row, it assigned it a key.
 That's the ID, that's the name, and that's the email.
 Now I can paste a bunch of these things in at the same time.
 Save us a little bit of time.
 Zoom, zoom, hit enter.
 And I can up arrow to go back to the select star from users.
 And now we see these are the folks that were inserted.
 We got six rows.
 And then the delete statement, delete from.
 So SQL sometimes has what seems like redundant things,
 and it's a bit more of a wordy language.
 It could say delete users, but it's like delete from users
 rolls better off the tongue.
 So this is a table, and then where is a part,
 you'll see where clauses on all kinds of SQL statements.
 And if you said delete from users,
 it would actually delete all the records.
 Maybe I'll do that right down here at the bottom.
 But I'm gonna say I wanna go in and delete the record
 where this is true.
 Now there might be more than one record.
 This currently happens to be only one record that has this.
 Better grab that semicolon.
 And so it's gonna change that.
 So I'll delete one record.
 So that Ted is gone, three, four.
 Oh wait, no, we put Ted in twice,
 and it got rid of both of them.
 Wonder if there was a mistake there.
 Yeah, I probably need to edit this file.
 Maybe when you look at this file, it won't be there.
 Oh, that's not, maybe I'll leave it there.
 That's pretty cool.
 Now here's another thing.
 So this deleted to users, if I run it again,
 it's not really an error.
 If I see there's nothing deleted,
 because I expressed a thing, a thing about SQL,
 when I said delete all the records from users
 where this is true, and there were none for which it was true,
 that's just fine.
 I could say, you know,
 or email equals that at blat dot that.
 You'd think that might be an error,
 but it just, there were no, this never was true.
 This where was never true.
 So it looked through all the records that were in the table,
 and it was never true, so nothing got deleted.
 So that's the delete statement.
 Now the upper lower case stuff, yeah, I'm just kinda,
 I like the upper case.
 I like to put all my keywords in upper case,
 and then tables, sometimes I don't do upper lower,
 but I tend to use the keywords.
 So update says to update the table users.
 Set is we're gonna make a change in there.
 Column name equals new value, and a where clause.
 And again, if this where clause wasn't there,
 it would apply to all of them.
 So this is gonna only set the name to Charles in one place.
 And now, if I do a select,
 you see that this record here got changed there.
 So you can reach in with a where clause
 and update a single comment with an update statement.
 You can put a where clause on a select,
 so you only see a single row.
 So you only see that row.
 You can add to a select an order by a column,
 and that column could be in ascending order.
 Ascending, doot, doot, doot, doot, doot, going up.
 And then do the same thing.
 Select star from users, order by name, descending.
 So that's gonna go descending, doot, doot, doot, doot, doot.
 Sally, Kristen, Colleen, Charles, down they go.
 So that's it.
 Now, we can drop table users.
 And so this is basically the CRUD.
 Insert, CRUD is create, read, update, delete.
 Here it would be insert, select, update, delete.
 But CRUD is sort of kind of the classic concept.
 So we can drop this table users, but how about I do this?
 Let me show you this, what happens if I say
 update user set name equals Charles.
 Implied in each one of these SQL statements
 is it applies to all of them.
 So we got all these records.
 Update user set name equals Charles without a where clause.
 And then I say select star from users.
 And you think, oh, that, it did exactly what we told us.
 We didn't say where clause, right?
 You know, that means all the records are affected.
 So this update users sort of implies all of the records.
 Now, if we say delete from users
 and then don't put a where clause there,
 you're gonna see what happens.
 Delete from users, no where clause.
 Implied all of the rows.
 And now I do a select and there is nothing.
 So that's why these where clauses are so important
 on like updates and deletes just so that we know
 what rows they're supposed to apply to
 'cause by default they apply to all rows.
 That's why you don't see loops in SQL
 because every statement like the update,
 the select and the delete, they're kind of loops
 automatically and you have to sort of shut them down
 with an if statement as it were, which is that where clause.
 And the last thing we can get is we can drop,
 we can just get rid of the table.
 That's another SQL statement.
 If we look at .tables, we see we have one
 and then we say drop table users, put a semicolon there
 and then say .tables and there are no tables left.
 And then I say .quit.
 And now I've got this file called zip.sqlite3
 and I can get rid of it without hurting,
 this is just, this isn't a database that's running
 with a server or anything makes any difference.
 So I hope this is useful to you.
 This is a great way for you to sort of look around.
 We look for tables, we do selects,
 we figure out what's going on.
 We can sometimes debug our code by looking
 at our databases at a very low level.
 So I hope this has been helpful to you.
 Cheers.
 (upbeat music)
