 - Hello, now we're gonna talk about the other half
 of the views, the templates.
 So the templates are our way of creating HTML.
 And again, just to ground everything that we've got here,
 you know, we're in the views, and the views are really
 sort of the code, the Python code that we drive.
 We're gonna get the forms in a bit, but views kind of
 merge stuff from the templates, merge stuff from the models,
 put, you know, send stuff in and make pages, right?
 So this is going to look a lot like HTML.
 It doesn't have to be HTML, it can be things but,
 other than HTML, but templates in our class
 will mostly be HTML, and so they're kind of the last
 little piece of the puzzle to start building user interfaces.
 And from this point on, we're going to be, you know,
 making user interfaces rather than introducing the parts
 of a Django application that have the user interface.
 So this is the text from the Django website.
 You know, it's about convenient ways to generate
 HTML dynamically, and there's a couple of different
 templating engines, we're using the default one,
 and there is some data that we pass into the template.
 There's a process that's called rendering,
 and then we get the HTML back, and we return to the browser
 with that HTTP response, which we've already been doing.
 It's not, the request-response cycle is the same.
 The difference is, instead of writing Python code
 to concatenate a bunch of things together,
 we are going to use a template engine.
 So this is the kind of stuff that we've been doing all along.
 We have a class and a view, a view class,
 REST main view that extends this view.
 In comes perhaps the request object,
 and then maybe even another parameter.
 That's not changing.
 What we're doing here is we're using concatenation.
 Concatenation, these little plus signs.
 Escaping, we're doing all the escaping and concatenating,
 and then we are sending back a response.
 So what goes back as a response,
 what comes in as a request, what goes back as a response.
 We're still gonna do that, we're just gonna
 get rid of that middle bit and make it a little prettier
 and make it a little more sense.
 If you look at that, oops, if you look at that,
 if you look at it, you gotta get it syntactically right.
 You got indentation problems, that's three lines of Python.
 I'm using triple quotes, I'm using plus,
 I gotta get all that matching together.
 And then eventually, the HTML is going back,
 I'll be using single quotes, double quotes,
 and all those kinds of things.
 And JavaScript's gonna look really ugly here.
 Indenting of the HTML kind of will fight
 with the indenting of the Python.
 So this is just general, I mean, I've only done short ones,
 'cause I only wanted to show you a little bit
 before we showed you templates.
 So the basic process is a bit of software,
 a template software that Django provides us.
 We're using the built-in Django one.
 And basically template is some HTML
 with some hotspots in it that says put data here.
 And then the rest of it is just HTML.
 And then we pass the data in, in some kind of an object,
 you know, dictionary, et cetera.
 And then a bit of code pulls all that stuff together
 and then produces the HTML with all the data placed in it.
 Often the render data that we're passing
 and it's coming from a model, for example.
 You know, we might talk to a database,
 load up a bunch of rows, and then put it in.
 But in the simplest form, what we've got
 is we've got like a little dictionary,
 call this the context, you could call it the render data,
 and then you have the render template.
 So the render template is really HTML,
 and that's what makes it a lot easier to look at,
 because you're not putting double quotes around anything,
 there's no concatenation, but there are special characters.
 And what the double curly brace surrounding it says
 is instead of that, take this bit out and replace it
 with whatever's in the variable dat from the render data.
 And so that's how, when it's all said and done,
 this is replaced in the fun stuff,
 replaces curly brace, curly brace dat in the final output.
 And if you thought about it for a while,
 you could probably write a render engine.
 They're not that hard.
 Now you'll see they have some sophisticated features
 eventually, so you probably don't want to write
 your own render engine, but you could imagine
 a Python assignment where I say write me a function
 that takes a dictionary that looks like that,
 and then with key value dat fun stuff,
 and then take some text file, has curly brace,
 curly brace dat, curly brace, curly brace,
 and then find that and then replace it with that string.
 You could write that code.
 You don't want to write that code.
 Django has already written that code for you.
 So here's the code in action.
 And so this is, we're gonna call this,
 we're in the application named tmpl, temple.
 And so we have the application temple,
 we have the view game, and then we have a number 200,
 and that's what we put in our urls.py
 to route the game view and take one parameter.
 Remember that slugs are a special version of strings
 that are letters, numbers, and dashes, I believe.
 And so the entire request coming in from the browser
 is coming into the variable request.
 This number 200 is coming in the variable,
 from the url is coming in the variable guess.
 And so instead of us concatenating together,
 we are going to create a context.
 What I call a context was just as a dictionary
 of key value pairs.
 And the key for guess is g-u-e-s-s, it's a string.
 That guess will matter inside the template.
 And then we pull this number 200
 and we convert it to an integer, and then we pass it in.
 And this render, we pass it the request object,
 we pass it the name of a template,
 and then we pass the context, the key value pairs,
 to be substituted in that.
 So let's take a look.
 So if we look at this template,
 it has a series of curly brace like hotspots,
 places where you would replace stuff.
 And so the double curly brace just says
 retrieve the string that is under guess and put it in,
 and so that's how we get your guess was 200
 in the ultimate output.
 And then we have curly brace percent
 all the way to percent curly brace,
 and this is a series of if then else's.
 So you can put logic in here too.
 You don't have to just take this string and put it in.
 So what we're doing is we're basically saying
 if the guess is less than 42, we print out too low.
 If it's above 42, we print too high.
 And of course, if it is 42, we print out just right.
 And since our guess was 200,
 it prints out too high.
 And so basically this makes this view code a lot simpler
 and doesn't put a less than's and greater than's
 and concatenations.
 It's all substituted by this render routine.
 Now the render routine returns an HTTP response request,
 so when we get that back, we just return it.
 So we hand back to Django the HTTP response request,
 and then the page is displayed in our browser.
 And remember that we have a Django project,
 and this is the Django project.
 In my case, the Django project is dj4e-samples,
 and I have a bunch of little applications.
 All these things, as a matter of fact,
 Temple is the one we're working at right now.
 Those are just the different pieces of sample source code
 that I've built for this class to talk about.
 And so those are applications.
 So it's just that Django terminology.
 Project made up of one or more applications and folders.
 Okay.
 And so the problem is, is these templates,
 when Django starts up based on the settings.py,
 it loads all these files up.
 Loads them all up.
 And so it loads them all up,
 and the templates are actually global,
 and we'll see this in a bit.
 They're global across all of the applications.
 And so the problem is, is that if you have a template name
 like detail.html, and you have a whole bunch of applications
 like I do, all of which wanna have a template name
 detail.html, it doesn't work.
 'Cause which detail.html, it'd be template/detail
 in two folders, it's not clear which one
 you're talking about.
 So we've adopted a convention that we take
 the application name, and we make a subfolder
 inside of templates that's the application name,
 and then we use this fabs/detail.html,
 or pics/detail.html as the name of the template.
 So in a sense, we're introducing a subfolder,
 and it's a little jarring at first,
 'cause you see it's the same.
 It's a good convention.
 I mean, it's unfortunate we have to have the convention,
 but because these names end up being global
 across your entire Django project in each application,
 and to get them a name, to get them properly named,
 it's necessary to introduce this extra level of redirection.
 We get the logins, there's templates that are stored
 outside in other applications, so sometimes you wanna
 get a template in some other application,
 so there's all kind of reasons this is a great idea.
 It just isn't the prettiest thing in the world.
 So just, when you see it, don't freak out,
 I try to call it out in the slides.
 And so we put these paths that includes
 the application name twice.
 It's weird, but it is necessary to do this
 because of the notion that all these template names
 are global across the entire application,
 but if then we called this the template name
 with the name of the application prefixed, away it goes.
 Django could've made that a little easier for us,
 but they basically didn't, and so we have to do this.
 But everybody does it the same way.
 So now what I wanna talk about is
 the actual templating language itself.
 I showed you a couple examples, the double curly braces,
 but it turns out there are lots of things
 that you can do with double curly braces
 in the template language.
 (jazz piano music)
