 - So now we're gonna talk about the actual template language.
 As I mentioned before, there's more than one
 templating language, we're using the default one.
 And I think it's actually one of the better ones,
 this whole notion of double curly braces.
 There's all kind of templating engines,
 and a lot of 'em use these double curly braces.
 Sometimes there's a one called mustache,
 because the curly braces look like a mustache.
 So there's double curly braces, you learn it in django,
 and you'll find it all kinds of other places.
 I've used it in front-end processing,
 this is back-end processing, 'cause we're doing
 all the substitution in the back-end.
 So there's basically a couple things you can do,
 the double curly braces, do substitution,
 and one thing that's cool about this, if you recall,
 I talked about how you have to escape data
 that came from the user, anything in the double curly braces
 is automatically escaped, as a matter of fact,
 you have to do something to not escape it,
 'cause it turns out that 98% of the time,
 you wanna escape data that you're printing out,
 'cause it doesn't change what it looks like,
 but it does make sure that it's safe.
 If you add this vertical bar safe afterwards,
 this vertical bar safe afterwards, that's like a modifier,
 I think it's called a filter in django,
 that says look, don't run this, don't run that filter on it
 to do the HTML entities, just do it as is,
 I know there may be HTML in that,
 but I've taken care of that because I am
 the application developer.
 You can call functions, the code is the curly brace percent,
 and there you tend to call a code, this is like code,
 this is like calling a method or a utility code,
 and so the first part of this is what you're calling,
 and then later, you can have some parameters,
 so this URL says, I wanna find a URL for the view cat detail,
 and I'm gonna take the number that is the current cat
 as the primary key for the cat record,
 and put that on as the URL as well.
 The author in this case is a, and we'll see this later,
 is a model item, and getAbsoluteURL is a method
 inside that model item.
 You can have sort of ifs and ifs and else's,
 and it's kind of Python-like, which is nice,
 in that you don't really have to learn new things.
 There is looping code that's in there,
 like a for loop that we'll talk about in a bit,
 and then there is blocks that can be replaced,
 so you can have a template that sort of pulls in
 another template and then substitutes in part of it,
 so you can have whole blocks of substitution,
 not just little strings of substitution,
 and so we'll talk about each of these in turn.
 So here we go, we'll start with a real simple one,
 and you'll notice that in this particular simple one,
 we have no parameters on the URL,
 so we don't have any parameters here.
 I'm going back to a non-class style,
 just a simple function, and I'm not sending a context.
 The context would be the third parameter on the render call,
 and so I'm just saying, hey, and this is what you do
 when you just have some static HTML
 that you don't really need to change anything,
 and so that's what's sitting in here,
 it's just a simple page.
 There's this thing called a built-in template view class
 that sort of does exactly this thing,
 that just grabs a template, turns it into an HDB,
 grabs a file, turns it into an HDB response,
 and sends it back to Django,
 so that's just a super simple template.
 Now here's one, we're gonna take a parameter to the context,
 and I'm not taking it from the command line quite yet,
 I'm just gonna make the parameter always be 42,
 and the key is, this is a key, and this is a value,
 so zap in this case is the key, and 42 is the value.
 I often call this variable context,
 but the fact that's just a mnemonic memory thing for me,
 context or CTX is what I tend to call it,
 and now I'm passing in the template,
 this template here, the guest.html template,
 and it has one little curly brace substitution,
 and remember that does escaping for us automatically,
 so there's no need to use escape the way there was
 when we were doing this by a concatenation.
 That alone is a good reason to use templates,
 and so this ends up sending out your guess is 42,
 so this is just really focusing on what's in that context,
 and how the things come out of the context.
 This name here, zap in the context,
 means pull the thing out of the context
 under the string name zap, and then it substitutes
 the results, like the 42, so instead of it saying
 guess was zap, it's your guess is 42,
 so that's really focusing on the substitution.
 So this is showing us how we do the save stuff
 in case you actually want to pass some HTML into a template
 and actually want it to render as HTML,
 not as HTML entities, or HTML entity style.
 So we're sending in a thing that's bold with a B
 and a less than B, that's HTML,
 it's got less than's and greater than's in it,
 and then we got zap, and so you can see that
 zap comes out as 42, it's HTML entities
 but has no special characters, but if we escape text,
 text is the one with the HTML entity characters,
 that automatically escapes it so that you see
 the less than's and greater than's in the browser output,
 escaped, less than B, bold, greater than B, right?
 And if you say text and then add the save filter
 to the end of it, that says don't escape it,
 and so then this bold goes right into the HTML document,
 and instead of you seeing the less than's and greater than's,
 you're actually seeing the text turn to bold.
 Now usually the bad folks that are trying to get into
 your computer are not just turning your text to bold,
 they're trying to run JavaScript,
 and all we're showing here is that
 whatever less than's and greater than's would be
 in that context value TXT, they're gonna end up
 literally in the document and the browser
 is going to interpret them as HTML.
 I mean there's just no way that somehow your browser knows
 the HTML that came from your program
 versus the HTML that came from a context variable,
 because by the time it gets to the browser,
 it's all one thing, and so it doesn't know,
 oh wow, that's dangerous, that came from a variable.
 Now by the time the response goes back to the browser,
 it's just a blob of text.
 Now we can talk about some loops here.
 I am passing in two arrays,
 apple, orange, banana, and lychee,
 and then I'm passing another array
 called n with peanut and cashew,
 and then I'm going to create a context,
 and in that context I'm gonna have fruits
 point at the list f, nuts point at the list n,
 and then zap is just the string 42,
 and do I even use zap in this one?
 No, I think there's another place that it,
 no, oh yeah, yeah, I just don't have it in the,
 so here's the template, a part of the template,
 it's not looking at zap, and so here's the key,
 so we got this for loop, four x in fruits,
 well fruits is looking up something in the context
 under the key fruits, they don't look like strings in,
 they don't look like strings in the template,
 but it looks up there and it finds a list,
 so that little list f is what really is going on here,
 and f is a list of apple, orange, banana, lychee,
 and then x becomes the iteration variable,
 that's only within the template,
 and then I'm gonna print it out,
 and then I'm gonna end it,
 so that's like the start and end of a for loop,
 apple, orange, banana, lychee.
 Now, you'll notice that I have an li tag,
 which is the list item tag,
 and it just generates all that HTML,
 and again, the double curly braces
 are doing HTML entity escaping automatically.
 So, we take a look at nuts,
 so we ask is nuts present,
 'cause that's a way to tell if variables present or absent,
 if it's absent, I'm going to ask another filter on the end
 saying how long was it, okay,
 and so this is just, this is the n,
 nuts is the n list, and it has a length of two,
 which means it has two elements in it,
 and so we see the number two,
 and so you can do various things,
 so this is, and this is an if then else,
 the syntax of an if then else,
 with curly brace, curly brace percent.
 Now, we can pass objects within objects,
 and so, it's a little tricky,
 we have a context in this x variable,
 and the, sort of the outer key is pointing,
 the key is, outer is pointing to another dictionary,
 and in that dictionary, there is a key of inner
 with a value of 42, and then we render the nested.html,
 and you see the outer,
 but then outer.inner, that's,
 so outer is that object, and then object.inner,
 then this thing becomes 42, okay,
 so you can kind of walk through objects
 if you have hierarchical objects,
 objects that are, objects that contain objects,
 or lists that contain objects,
 or any number of hierarchical structure
 of lists and objects, you can walk through them.
 So here's just another simple example,
 this one has data coming in instead of hard coded,
 so we again have, you know, game 200,
 and we're running into game view,
 it's a class view, and the 200 comes in as the parameter,
 because we said it's the parameter
 that comes after the word game,
 and so guess comes in as 200,
 it's a string at this point,
 it hasn't been converted to an integer,
 so when Django pulls these off,
 well, it does some validation based on the types,
 but it doesn't actually necessarily convert them,
 and so we're going to create a context,
 x equals, you know, a key of guess,
 and convert it to an integer to pass it in,
 and then we're gonna pass the context in
 and the template in, and so the word guess
 is gonna come out, and we sort of saw this,
 the guess is 200, and then depending on the if then else
 logic, it's gonna say, in this case,
 too high, because your guess was 200,
 and of course the right answer is always 42.
 So now we're gonna talk a little bit about
 how you manage a common text going from one template
 to another through template inheritance.
 (jazz music)
