 So now we're going to do a real simple run-through
 of the kinds of things that you can do in HTML and forms.
 This is only the beginning and there's so many great
 online resources for how to do forms in HTML.
 So I've already showed you the basic text field.
 We'll talk about the password field, radio button,
 checkbox, select and drop-down.
 And I just got kind of this one HTML page
 that you can view the source of and borrow.
 I kind of write this stuff up for me for a quick reference.
 So we've already talked about the text field, right?
 So input type equals text and then the name is the value.
 The ID, don't get too stuck on the ID.
 The ID has to do with how you associate the label tag
 with the field and so that that knows that somehow
 a count and this text box are connected.
 So the ID is more of a browser thing
 and the name equals is the thing that's gonna be sent
 to the browser.
 So the browser's always gonna get key value pairs.
 And so when we type beth and we hit submit,
 then we're gonna get the incoming post data
 is gonna have the value account equals beth.
 Now if you look at password, that's a type.
 Password for all intents and purposes is a text type.
 And it shows it so people can't shoulder surf
 and see what it is.
 Of course they can watch you type your password,
 but it shows asterisks in the box while you're typing.
 But then it's important to realize that once the data
 is submitted, the data is submitted in plain text.
 And so here's another one, another nickname.
 So nick equals N-I-C-K.
 So that's basically the variance of the input types of text.
 Hidden, type equals hidden is another one
 where you just don't see it in the user interface.
 We're gonna use one of those input type equals hidden
 in a bit.
 A radio button is designed for situations where there
 you can only pick one of two things.
 So when you hit A-M, the P-M goes off.
 When you hit P-M, the A-M goes off.
 And you can actually have a whole bunch of them
 and you can click them.
 Now they're drawn together because they're type equals radio
 and then the name is identical.
 And interestingly, you can scatter these
 literally all over the page.
 It doesn't lead to very good user interface,
 but the way you go.
 And so what happens is, is again,
 no matter how many of these you put with a name equals when,
 no matter where you put them on the page,
 if you click one, all the others are gonna turn off.
 And so the one that's clicked,
 they all have different values.
 And so what'll happen is whatever one is clicked
 at the moment that you actually send it,
 that will be the key value pair where when equals P-M,
 'cause only one can be selected,
 and it's up to you to make these things unique.
 Or you don't, maybe you don't want them unique.
 You do whatever you want.
 And so in this case, the P-M one is selected,
 so we see when equals P-M in the incoming post data.
 So that's a radio button.
 So this is a checkbox.
 This is more, probably more useful in many ways.
 Checkboxes, you can have as many that you want,
 and each of them are individual and distinct.
 So if you take a look, for example,
 you see that you have different names,
 class one, class two, and class three, right?
 So that each checkbox has its own name,
 but the checkboxes are actually just little checkboxes.
 The text here is just text.
 The text is not really a critical part of it.
 The value, value is what will get sent
 if that checkbox is checked.
 And so in this example, we've checked pi-free and si-539,
 and you'll notice that two of them have values,
 and one of them doesn't.
 Now the key is often you're just checking
 to see if the data's there.
 In this case, class three is not in the post data,
 and class one is on.
 That's the default.
 If you don't say value equals, it's like value equals on,
 or whatever the value is that you put in that checkbox.
 And so you get to decide these.
 You might easily think that you don't need
 any values whatsoever, because you're really looking
 for the name of the field,
 and you want the name of the field to be distinct.
 And so again, you can check as many of the checkboxes
 as you want.
 You can uncheck 'em, you can check none of 'em,
 and you can check all of 'em.
 So those are checkboxes.
 So to describe a drop-down,
 a drop-down is a multiple choice option, basically,
 for a single value that's gonna be sent back to you.
 And so we have a select, which is the whole thing,
 and that gives the name the keyword
 that it's gonna be sent back to.
 And then we have a series of options,
 and you'll notice there's no value on the select,
 but each option has its own value, right?
 So I happen to be going zero, one, two,
 and these are strings, not numbers.
 They often are just numbers to make our lives simple.
 And then you have some text, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 And so you pick one, in this case I leave it default,
 and I hit the submit, so soda is gonna be equal to zero.
 So this happened to be the one that's selected
 when we hit submit, okay?
 So that's what a select looks like.
 You can also make a select that has some defaulted one,
 and so you just put selected on one of 'em.
 So that means it's the dropdown.
 They're all there, right?
 They're all there.
 If you click on this thing, you'll see,
 if you click on which snack,
 you're gonna see all the different snacks.
 Peanuts is preselected.
 And if I don't change it and hit submit,
 then we're gonna see snack equals the value,
 which is peanuts.
 So that's an example that you don't have to make numbers,
 although it's really common to be using numbers.
 So that's a dropdown with a default
 other than the first item.
 The default is it's the first item
 unless you do it otherwise.
 When you're typing in comments or a blog post,
 big long blob of text, you use a text area tag.
 The text area tag is a little bit different
 in that it doesn't have a value equals.
 It does have a name equals.
 It has rows and columns to tell how tall it is
 and how wide it is.
 There are clever styling libraries
 that make these a little prettier.
 But basically what it is, it's a series of text,
 including paragraphs, including new lines, et cetera.
 And you're just allowed to type with new lines
 and edit and cursor around in here
 and build all kind of stuff.
 And then you send it in and you can put default text in here.
 You can edit the text, you can change it,
 and it comes in as a key value pair
 with new lines and everything
 and any weird spacing that you might put in.
 But it's basically a block of text like a comment
 or like a comment or a blog post or something like that.
 So the last thing on this page here is the submit button.
 And so you can make a type equals submit
 and you can give it a name.
 And again, that's a key value pair and a value.
 Now, the submit is a little bit weird
 in that the value actually appears on the submit.
 What we tend to do is the submit,
 and if you were in a multi-language environment,
 you're gonna want that to be whatever language of the user.
 So usually what we do is I name,
 carefully name the variables or the name of the form,
 and then I check for this to exist.
 And if I have a bunch of buttons, I name them differently
 and don't really actually look at this text
 because that text might wanna be translated
 at some point in time.
 So that's an input type.
 Input type equals button.
 This is a little pattern where I'm gonna do like an escape
 or a back or something like that.
 And then sometimes it's easier just to do
 some little JavaScript and what this little JavaScript chunk
 is, location.hrf equals quote www.dj4e.com, return false.
 What this says is it actually sort of when you press
 this escape button, it goes up in the browser
 and in effect pastes this little URL into the URL bar
 and then hits enter and return false keeps the form
 from being submitted.
 And so this is a way that I often will put a simple cancel
 or escape or something else in a form.
 Just if I know the URL I want to go back to or go to,
 then you can put it in here and unclick location.hrf.
 So those are the input types that have been around
 for probably 20 years.
 Yeah, at least 20, 25 years.
 HTML5 is a more recent phenomenon,
 although by now it's pretty well supported
 in most browsers, defined a whole new set of input types.
 And what's nice about this is we were slowly
 but surely building complex libraries
 to solve all these problems.
 But now we can use these input types
 and now each browser can support them to their own way.
 And they all fall back to type equals text.
 And so if you have a really old browser,
 these don't cause trouble.
 So here's just some samples of some things.
 So type equals color is a color picker,
 and that's gonna pop up a color picker,
 let you cruise around.
 That color picker is defined by the browser
 and usually the operating system.
 And so you'll pick a color.
 And then that color is going to go in in hex format.
 And that's the red, the green, and the blue.
 And so that's what colors look like.
 You can have type equals date.
 And so here's a date and they pop in here.
 You're gonna pop up a date picker.
 For the birthday, you'll pop up a date picker
 and you'll be able to kind of move around
 and pick a date and then that'll put that date in
 as a string.
 They're all gonna turn into strings
 when they're being sent in.
 A couple of the other ones like email, name equals email.
 That basically does validation that says
 it's gotta have an at sign.
 There's some rules about what is and isn't a valid email.
 And so this will refuse to submit this form
 unless there's a valid email in there.
 The same is true for number.
 You, if you put something that's like 25
 and it's not between one and five with min and max here,
 is we're gonna refuse to submit the form.
 The same is true for a type equals URL.
 It's really a validation on the form to say look,
 you can't put something in here that's not a valid URL.
 And just to prove that it doesn't matter,
 if you make any type, which flying doesn't exist,
 you can type something in and it just functions
 as a text field.
 And so in a way all these fall back to text fields.
 Now the key thing is is when you hit the submit button,
 normally that gathers up the form
 and sends it to the server.
 But when you use this HTML5 validation
 like date, number, email, URL,
 it actually will before it,
 before it you hit the submit button,
 before it actually sends it,
 it's gonna do a quick validation on these things.
 And it will actually stop and say you know what,
 you didn't get that one right.
 And it just refuses to submit.
 So you can't override that in your application.
 What happens is is the data doesn't get submitted at all
 until, so the browser blocks the submission of the data.
 Now if it's not an HTML5 browser,
 it's gonna get submitted with no validation whatsoever.
 So we still have to kind of check this data for sanity,
 which we'll talk about soon about how to do that.
 In the server, but this is quite nice
 because it gives your user some immediate feedback,
 kind of customized to the browser,
 so the browser takes some responsibility
 for helping get the user to type the right stuff in.
 And so that is a romp through HTML forms.
 You will learn so much more.
 I just wanted to kind of cover some of them
 in case you hadn't seen it in a while.
 (upbeat music)
