 So now that we've introduced CSRF conceptually,
 let's talk about how we actually implement it
 running in Django.
 So if you remember, I didn't really point this out
 too much when we went through it.
 This was my first form where I showed you how data
 could be transported to the server using a POST request.
 If you look at the top, I have this little annotation
 @csrf_exempt, and there's a little import above it
 in the views file, and what I was basically telling Django
 is don't blow this up because I'm not handling CSRF properly.
 So what we're gonna do is we're gonna do the exact same view
 except we're just not gonna have that little thing.
 So we'll call this one fail form,
 and we're gonna throw out a form,
 we're gonna press submit, everything looks fine,
 the only difference is I did not turn off CSRF processing.
 So on a POST request, CSRF processing is on by default,
 which means that we have to do something explicitly
 when we're making POST forms, but I didn't do it yet,
 so this is what happens if you don't do it.
 So you get a form and you press the,
 type some stuff in and you hit submit query,
 and boom, you get this forbidden message.
 That's a 403, so among all the HTTP responses,
 we've got 200, which is okay, we've got 302,
 which is moved, and we've got 404, which is not found.
 403 is you're not getting this page,
 but not because I don't have it,
 but because you're not authorized to do it.
 So this is it aborting and stopping the POST,
 so it comes in, it looked up the session,
 and everything looked good except the CSRF did not match.
 Now, we are a legit server, so what we've gotta do
 is we've gotta actually add the CSRF
 to the POST on the way out, okay?
 So this is the exact same POST,
 and I'm doing this kind of at a low level,
 and I'll show you a much easier way to do it in a minute.
 So we have an input hidden, I just happen to know
 that CSRF middleware token is the proper name for it,
 and I'm just gonna have a placeholder,
 which is underscore underscore token,
 and so then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna talk
 to that middleware, CSRF, get token.
 Now, that token is probably just a number
 sitting in the session, but I don't need to know that,
 I just say, hey, give me the token for the current request.
 Request is, of course, all that data that's coming in,
 it's got the session, it's got everything else in it.
 So hey, give me that token, this is a big, long string,
 which is really just a big, long, random number,
 a big, long, random string, and then what I'm gonna do
 is take whatever that big, long, random number is,
 and I'm gonna replace this little bit with a stir,
 a simple replace, and then I'm gonna send that out.
 So this time, when we go to that page,
 you'll see that now we have an input type equals hidden,
 name equals CSRF middleware token,
 and then the big, long middleware token, whatever that is,
 and then now when we submit it,
 it bundles up both the guess and the middleware token,
 and it actually bundles up the submit as well,
 if it's got a name, and sends that in as post data.
 So now when it dumps out, you see,
 oh, well, you got guess equals 42 and CSRF middleware.
 Now, by the time it's got to this point,
 we're not really doing the checking here,
 the checking was done before the view started.
 And so if we go back to the view here,
 the checking is done before it gets to here.
 When you're dispatching from urls.py to this,
 and it says, hmm, you didn't tell me not to do CSRF,
 and it's not done properly, so I'm gonna blow you up.
 So if it's gonna work, it's already worked.
 The fact that we've come in here
 and we're dumping this stuff out of the post,
 that's just sort of like we see it,
 but it would have blown up before
 it would have even got to our code at that point.
 But we do get it and see it as post data.
 We don't need to because by the very fact
 that our view is running means that the CSRF processing
 has been successful, okay?
 And again, the rogue system has to somehow
 get its hands on this, the actual number of the CSRF,
 and that changes every time you log in.
 And literally, it could change every hour or so or whatever.
 And so it's a hard number to guess
 and it's a hard number to get your hands on.
 Now, that manual thing is not the easiest way to put this in.
 There's an easy way in CSRF.
 You simply say, so here's our form, here's our slash form.
 I do all the stuff I wanna do that I wanna do
 and then I use the code, it is called template tag.
 When you have CSRF enabled in your Python,
 you have a template tag of CSRF underscore token.
 And that emits the input, the type equals hidden,
 the write name, and all that stuff.
 So you, as the developer using templates,
 you don't have to know anything about that, okay?
 And so this, that's how we do CSRF.
 And the only other thing we got is guessing game
 and then we're gonna pass a message into that
 and we're gonna do that in a bit.
 We're gonna use this for a whole bunch of little examples.
 So kind of remember this particular guest.html template.
 But the key right now that we're talking about
 is the fact that we've got this CSRF token in.
 Now, I'm gonna write a bunch of guessing games
 and these guessing games,
 I'm actually going to start checking the guesses.
 So I'm gonna have a function in this view
 that's got called check guess.
 And it's pretty simple.
 It returns a string or false.
 If the guess is an actual non-false thing,
 we check to see if it's too low, too high,
 or right on time.
 Or if it doesn't compute, if it doesn't convert,
 if this guess throws a trace back,
 well, then we'll say bad format equals guess
 and then just because it probably came from the user,
 we're gonna escape it and then send that back.
 So whatever it does,
 we're gonna send back a nice little message going back.
 And so here is a simple guessing game
 that we're going to do.
 And so we're using a class-based view this time.
 Of course, we extend the class view.
 And remember how it works is it's not just a function.
 We actually have two methods.
 One is a get request.
 And the get is called when we're receiving get request.
 And the post is called when we're receiving a post request.
 This alone is one of the nice reasons to do this.
 You don't actually have to say, if it's a get do one thing,
 if it's a post do another thing.
 We just have two methods.
 And Django properly routes the requests in.
 And so this is gonna be a form post.
 So on the get, we just render with no messages.
 We render with no messages.
 And we have a CSRF token that goes out,
 so we just render it.
 Then we'll click the button so that this render right here
 will produce this page.
 Then we type in the guess of 42 and we hit submit query.
 And then that bundles it all up including CSRF
 and goes to the post.
 Now the CSRF, as long as we put it in that template,
 we don't have to care because before that post method
 gets activated, CSRF has been processed.
 And we get a 403 if the CSRF isn't right.
 So if we go back up here, you don't put this in,
 and you run this code, the CSRF token, you don't put it in,
 then it's never gonna make it to the post.
 I mean, it blows up in route to the post
 if the CSRF doesn't happen.
 But we've got CSRF and it's all automatic.
 We just throw that one line inside of our form
 and that's all we've gotta do.
 So we put 42 in, we hit submit query,
 pass the CSRF, it comes in.
 So we grab the post data, the guess from the post data.
 We call my little check message,
 check guess that's gonna give me that little message,
 whether it's too low, too high,
 or some kind of other mistake.
 And then I'm gonna pass in a context,
 the string message has that string.
 And if then we go, do I have it down here?
 No, have it up here.
 So then the message comes out.
 So this, you'll notice I've surrounded this by an if,
 so the message is false or not present,
 then it doesn't put anything out.
 But if it is, it actually puts the message out.
 And so out comes the guess.
 And so this is what it looks like
 when we do a get request, we see this,
 then we're gonna see all this stuff,
 we're gonna type our number in, we're gonna hit submit query,
 and then it's gonna fire up a post request.
 And so then it's gonna come back into the post request,
 it's gonna get the guess from the post data,
 it's gonna check it,
 and then it's gonna pass the message in,
 and so the message is gonna come out here,
 and then we're gonna return that page.
 And so you're gonna see something like congratulations 42.
 So that took, that was part of the post.
 And so we now have made a successful guessing game.
 So next we're gonna talk about,
 just when we get something working,
 there's always something that we have to say,
 oh, but there's a little detail that we forgot about.
 So up next, we'll talk about post and refresh,
 which is a little problem that we're just gonna have to fix.
 (upbeat music)
