 So now we're in the second half of our data modeling exploration.
 We've talked about one to many and
 now we're going to talk about many to many.
 Just to remember, we are in the bowels of a django application and
 we're really very much talking about the model.py file and how we mess with that.
 We're talking a little bit about the shell and
 how we can sort of look at the model.py and store stuff in the database.
 How we can like migrate, make migrations and update the database and
 then read and write data from the database through the models.
 And so, this, we're sort of narrowing in eventually.
 We're gonna see all the rest of the django application, the views,
 the forms, the templates.
 And we've done a little bit with routing and a little bit with admin.
 But just remember that we're gonna look at each of these pieces in turn and
 eventually make some sense out of them.
 So, in this data model, which I think is a really cool data model because
 it shows two one to many relationships and two many to many relationships.
 One very simple and one a little bit more complex.
 Both the genre and the author are example of one to many.
 And just sort of foreshadowing, see the one dot dot asterisk there?
 On both ends of the links, well that basically says one or more.
 Up to an infinite, the other one's zero dot dot, the line's kind of covering it.
 Zero or more and one or more.
 So the one to many has one on one side, sometimes it has zero or one.
 But one on one side and then zero dot dot star or one dot dot star.
 So many to many is a different kind of creature.
 So remember how in the last modeling exercise, I kinda, you'll notice,
 I showed you genre and author and then I kinda stopped talking about them.
 I only talked about language and book instance.
 So in this one, we're gonna talk about genre and author.
 And that's because genre and author are kinda problematic.
 Cuz really, each book can have multiple authors.
 And each book can be multiple genres.
 And so, in that previous lecture, I kept these really simple.
 And you see this syntax here where I'm just kinda making a spreadsheet.
 Or another way to be thinking about it would be a single, single wide table with
 all my data in one table, but I'm starting to put commas in.
 And so when you have commas in a user interface,
 you think of this as perhaps a multi-select, where you have a list of things and
 you can highlight more than one of those things.
 And so anytime you sort of see this pattern, it's another form of replication.
 And that is that the Raspberry Pi book can be of the tech genre and
 the kids genre, and the wizard stay up late book can be of the tech genre and
 the thinking genre, right?
 Some books have one genre, some books have two genres,
 some books have one author, some have two.
 But then the problem is they might have ten authors or 20 authors.
 And so how do we represent these things?
 And if you're sort of looking at either a UI or sort of a UI or
 just kind of a flat data table, you start seeing these commas.
 And as soon as you see the commas, you think to yourself,
 that is an indicator that this might be a many-to-many relationship.
 So if this were a one-to-many, not one-to-one, this was a one-to-many.
 This was a one-to-many relationship, sort of like what we did with languages.
 We would have a book and that would have a genre foreign key in it that would point
 to a row and a genre table, and that would make some sense, right?
 But that doesn't make sense because we have to have genres more than one.
 You could basically decide for
 your application developers that you can't have more than one genre.
 But the application developers would say, sorry, we're librarians.
 And we know that there's more than one genre.
 So you, the programmer,
 have got to come up with a data model that represents that.
 And so if this was a one-to-many, you could have like a genre ID and
 each book would be able to pick a row out of the genre, and
 so they would sort of mark themselves.
 Now, this is another moment where it's a warning sign.
 And you're like, well, maybe we would just have two foreign keys.
 And we just, how about books are only allowed to have two genres, you know?
 Maybe one's not enough, but two's enough.
 Oh, man, let's make it three.
 And so, and people who are doing data modeling earlier, early in their career,
 they were like, yeah, I'll just make a genre ID01, genre ID02, and
 then later like genre ID03, and away you go.
 And this is completely wrong.
 Because genres, of course, is a weird example.
 But if it's authors, there are plenty of books with 8 or 9, 10, 11 authors, right?
 And so this, when you see yourself thinking this in your head,
 it's like, I'll just add like an array of things here.
 No, and it has to do with it.
 It violates the basic notion of relations and connections, and
 how you model stuff to the extent that you can with connections.
 And so that leads us to what's called the many to many.
 [MUSIC]
