 And so the many-to-many is a situation where you have sort of somewhere between one infinity
 and somewhere between one infinity on both sides.
 Now, what we need to do to model this is we can't really model many-to-many in a relational database.
 So what we do is we break it into two one-to-manys, and we have a junction table.
 You could call this the author book table.
 Later I'll call this the author table, like, you know, who are the authors of?
 You could call it authors of.
 And it's a table that's a very short table, and it really just says,
 this author authored this book, this author authored this book, this author authored this book.
 And then within that, you can say, for this book, who are all the authors?
 Or for this author, what are all the books, right?
 So we call it a connection table, we call it a join table, we call it a junction table.
 And in Django terminology, we'll call this a through table.
 But its purpose is to have two outbound one-to-many relationships instead.
 And that basically is just our way of capturing a one-to-many.
 And that's why I said one-to-many plus one-to-many equals many-to-many.
 Two-to-many would sound good, but many-to-many.
 So here we are.
 And here are our two many-to-many relationships in our local library application.
 So a book can have many authors, and an author can have many books.
 And that's what we're characterizing with this little one dot dot star,
 one dot dot star.
 And the same is true, like a genre can be associated with many books.
 And interestingly, the zero dot dot star, that's special,
 where the book connects to genre and it's zero dot dot star coming out of the book.
 That means it's a minimum of zero.
 And all that's really capturing is that a book can have no genres.
 But a book must have at least one author.
 And whether that's true or not, that's what this data model is saying.
 This data model is saying all books have at least one author, but
 they have zero or more genres, but they have one or more authors.
 And that's the subtle difference between zero dot dot star and one dot dot star.
 And that's the kind of clever little application features that these
 applications can, these data models can capture beautifully.
 And we'll see in a second how that turns into a Django model that is a,
 then a business rule for the data.
 And so this is how it works.
 We're gonna create two tables, the book table and the author table.
 And every table's gonna, every row's gonna have an ID,
 auto increment, primary key column.
 And then we're gonna have these outbound foreign keys from authored.
 Again, the authored table is the start of the arrow, so
 it's the one that has the foreign key column in it.
 And the destination of the arrow is a primary key in that other table.
 Now what we're gonna do is, and we'll see how this works,
 is that Django allows us to create these kind of virtual attributes.
 And we'll name them cleverly, the name of them doesn't matter.
 But we'll basically say inside of author, we're going to have an attribute of
 books, which is automatically going to be populated by all the books
 the author wrote, and in book, there'll be this little virtual thing.
 It's actually computed, it's not stored, it's actually computed
 based on reading the authored table.
 It'll be authors, which is a list of all the authors.
 And so this is a convenient way, because in Django,
 they kind of wanna hide this middle table, it exists.
 And as a matter of fact, you can write, drop my pen, drop my pen.
 Pick the pen back up, make sure the audio is still working.
 Is the audio still working?
 Yeah, it is, audio's still working.
 Life's good.
 Sorry about that slight interruption.
 So Django tends to wanna hide this through table.
 And you can actually define models where you don't even give that a name and
 it makes one up.
 It still exists, it exists exactly like it's shown here.
 But I would rather in my data model show you this table so
 you have a better understanding.
 But if you see other data models where they don't explicitly mention this and
 just have a many-to-many, and it actually makes this table up for you.
 So don't get all freaked out if you see a model that doesn't have
 the through table explicitly modeled.
 I like to do it.
 So here we go.
 So here we have some models.
 So we have the book field, the title's just a bit of the book.
 Then authors is a many-to-many field going toward the author table.
 That's the far one, but the through table is authored.
 So the intermediate table, the junction table,
 the through table is the authored table.
 The author is on the other side.
 The author has a name and it has books, which is this kind of virtual set in there
 that's a many-to-many field derived pointing at the book table
 with a through table of authored.
 So the junction table, we mentioned the junction table the same in both of these,
 right?
 So this is going from one to the other and this is kinda going back.
 And these are like virtual.
 It's not data that's stored in the row of, each row of the book table.
 It is data which is derived for you if you ask for it when you retrieve a book.
 You can say, what are the authors of this book?
 It's a convenience in a way.
 And it also is telling Django about the foreign keys and
 where to store the foreign keys and the fact that it's a many-to-many field.
 That's all, all setting up this stuff so
 that Django, when you start putting stuff in these tables,
 Django automatically puts the right stuff into those tables.
 And like I said, here's the through table I called authored.
 I thought that was kinda clever.
 And the through table is modeled as foreign key this way, foreign key that way.
 So that's not a many-to-many, it's a foreign key.
 But I've named these and I matched these things up.
 Now the on delete cascade is the same as the other one.
 These are now just, these are two one-to-manys, right?
 The through table has a one-to-many going this way and
 a one-to-many going that way.
 And on delete cascade, and so just the whole idea of a book-author combination is
 if the authors are deleted, if you delete an author,
 you wanna delete all the entries in the authored table that correspond to that
 author, if we do delete a book, you wanna delete automatically all the entries in that.
 And so that's what on delete cascade means in the authored table.
 And that's clean this table up if things are deleted but from the outside to table.
 So that automatic cleanup is done for us, which is quite nice.
 And we just request that with this on delete statement.
 So, I don't know, that's a beautiful thing.
 That is a beautiful thing.
 It's so pure and so simple.
 And I don't like it when you don't put the authored table in there.
 Cuz you can sort of do this and then it'll make the authored table up, but
 then there's certain things that don't work as well, and I don't like that.
 Okay, so let's just say we created this models.py file.
 Of course, in dg4e samples, if you checked it out and you ran make migrations,
 it run makes them all.
 But let's just say this is the first time you run make migrations.
 And then you'd see that it's creating the migrations.
 And then you do the migrate, which of course, as we talked about in
 the previous lecture, that is what takes from the migrations.
 And then upstates the database, and both the make migrations and
 the migrate are checking to see which ones have already been done.
 So, make migrations is looking for changes or deltas in the models.py file.
 And the migrate is looking for deltas in the migrations.
 And again, remember that the list of the things that both of these are looking at
 is based on the settings.py file.
 And it's the installed apps variable in the settings.py file.
 So, I put this note in because students are always saying,
 my make migrations didn't do anything.
 Well, there's one of two reasons.
 It either is not in the settings.py file, or it's already done.
 So, I don't know which of those it is, but those are the two things to look for.
 If you think you're running a make migrations, and it's not running.
 It either already ran, which is fine, that's totally fine.
 Or you forgot to add it to settings.py.
 So, okay, so
 here's just a few things that we can do in the shell, right?
 Again, python3 manage.py shell.
 You gotta run this from the folder that has manage.py in it,
 which is the project folder.
 Projects have many applications.
 And so, because the manage.py shell starts up in preloads, again,
 the manage.py shell reads all of the apps that are in settings.py,
 loads their models, and a few other things from those preloads them.
 And so, that's why BookMany.models exists at the very first line here.
 Because Django, in a sense, has woke up and
 preloaded all of the classes and things that are there.
 So, it's in a Django application, not just in a Python shell.
 So, we import BookMany as the name of the application, and
 the models are book, author, and authored.
 So, some of this hopefully is starting to look familiar to you.
 We create an object of type Book, BookModel, the title's networking.
 And then we save it.
 Remember, save is the thing that transmits the in-memory object into the database and
 populates that ID field.
 And when you start linking these together,
 the populating the ID field is very important.
 We do a Raspberry Pi book, and we save that.
 And now we're gonna make an author for Kristen, and save that.
 And author for me, and we save that.
 And so at this point, we have made two authors, and we made two books.
 But now we have to connect them together, okay?
 And so what we're gonna basically say is we're gonna create an authored record,
 a record and author, with a book connecting book B1 with author A2 and save it.
 Then book B2 connected with author A1 and save that.
 Book B2 connected with author A1 and save that.
 So that's throwing three records into the author table.
 Making those connections, setting the foreign keys.
 So like it's just reading the ID field from these A1, A2, and B1, B2.
 And that's like inserting records into the author table in the book_id and
 the author_id, right?
 Now, remember that in book we have this virtual set called authors, and
 in author we have this virtual set called books.
 Again, that's not actually stored in the book table or the books table.
 It is generated by reading through the appropriate things in the author table.
 That's how it's generated.
 So if we say for book1.authors, this is like that little virtual thing.
 And it reads all of the corresponding authors from the author table.
 And then values just says actually go retrieve them.
 And so now we see that the authors for
 book1 is a list of just one author named Severance.
 Book2, author's values, is a list with Kristen and me.
 And then author1, who's that?
 Author1 is Kristen.
 What books did she write?
 Well, she wrote the Raspberry Pi book, we co-wrote that book.
 And then author2, what books did he write?
 Well, he wrote the networking book by himself, and
 he's a co-author with Kristen on this other book.
 And there's all kind of other things that you can do, but you kinda get this idea
 that you don't have to do too much with the authored table.
 And then once you got things all set up, you can sort of walk the authored table
 without actually knowing it, because we preset these things when we made
 the data model and said what the through table was.
 And so the through table is sort of a magic thing that's useful, but
 we don't really explicitly deal with it too much.
 Now up next, I'm gonna show you a different example of many to many,
 just to sort of bring this home a bit.
 [MUSIC]
