 So now I want to show you another example of many-to-many
 from an application that's near and dear to my heart
 and that's the autograder that I use
 for most of my online classes.
 So one of the things the autograder has to know
 is like who is in what course
 so that we can track grades based on people and courses.
 And so this is the data model
 and it's a little bit different syntax.
 You sort of see one-to-many.
 It's using what's called crow's feet
 and you see this little crow foot
 and that's like a many when it sort of spreads out
 and then you sort of have this one
 and there's various little ways
 and one or more or zero or more
 and so there's little, it's called a crow's foot diagram.
 But these diagrams ultimately are capturing the same thing
 whether these relationships are many-to-many
 or one-to-many and what the cardinality
 of each end of the relationship is.
 And this is showing a person table,
 a course table and a membership table
 and this is a very common thing that we have to solve
 in educational systems and it's a little bit
 more sophisticated than the previous one
 which I thought was beautifully elegant and simple
 but I wanna show you this one as well.
 And so what we have here is basically
 a people are in courses, right?
 A person can be in many courses
 and a course can have many people
 so it's a many-to-many relationship.
 We create a through table.
 We'll call it a member table.
 We end up just like before with two one-to-many's pointing out
 or many-to-ones pointing outwards
 so we have a person ID and a course ID in the member table.
 All three of these tables have primary keys
 of ID, ID and ID and then we put the little tiny
 sort of virtual set in here so that at a person
 you can just look at a virtual set of their courses
 and of course you can say who are the members of this course.
 Now we're gonna do one more thing
 that's a little bit different here
 and that is often the simplest of through tables
 is literally an ID and two foreign keys.
 And as a matter of fact, some people,
 Django doesn't like doing this
 but some people don't even include the ID field
 and they just make the combination
 of the two foreign keys as a unique ID inside.
 And if you're doing databases directly
 you can actually do that.
 But here's a thing that you can also do.
 So if you think about in a teaching and learning situation
 people aren't just members of courses.
 They are members of courses and they have a role
 and is that role as a learner, a teaching assistant
 or an instructor or perhaps
 they're the departmental administrator, right?
 And that is an attribute of the connection, right?
 The connection between a person and a course
 is the membership and oh by the way
 they're not just a member,
 they're a member with some metadata, okay?
 And so sometimes we add data to the through table
 and it's actually quite useful
 and it's really the only place to model this kind of data
 because somebody might be in a course as a teacher
 and they might be in a different course as a student
 so you can't just say this person is always a teacher
 or they're always a student, you can't say that.
 It depends on the context and so that's why
 at the connection between a particular person
 and a particular course we actually model
 the role that they have in that course.
 So here we go.
 So we're going to have a person in a course
 and we're going to have a through table, a membership
 and so we're gonna send these things
 back and forth to each other
 and this membership is the tricky one
 and so we have a foreign key over to person
 and a foreign key over to course
 and we're gonna model some information.
 We're gonna model a created date at
 and this is a date time field, this is another feature
 that basically says let's make a created underscore at
 and dear Django, I'm not even gonna set this value.
 Please, when I create this, a new record here,
 populate this at the current date and time
 and if I make a change to it, change the updated at
 and this is a common pattern in lots of tables
 to put these two lines in and it's so common
 that we often call them the same field.
 So you'll look in somebody's Django model
 and you'll see created at and you'll see updated at
 and so that's another thing we're modeling
 at the connection in the through table
 and so the other thing we're going to do is have the role.
 Now the example that you use in local library,
 they make this role I think a string
 which makes me kind of like feel bad
 'cause I don't like vertical replication of string
 even if they're sort of from a fixed vocabulary.
 So what we're gonna do here is we're gonna do something
 where we're going to create a set of integers
 and associate those integers with meaning
 and use them in the admin interface, et cetera
 and so what I'm gonna do here is these learner IA, GSI,
 instructor and admin are just integer numbers
 and then I'm going to say I'm gonna make
 this little tuple of tuples or a list of tuples as it were
 and the learner integer maps to the string learner
 so we can show that in the user interface.
 This here is a lot of UI stuff so in the admin UI,
 this whole member choices thing affects the admin UI.
 When this is all said and done,
 we basically say the role is an integer field
 and I like that because it's short and I love integers.
 How many times have you heard me say I love integers?
 Integers are short and efficient
 and instead of just being any number,
 it really is the choices are pulled from this thing
 which is these possible numbers
 which is one, 1,000, 2,000, 5,000 or 10,000
 and the default value is learner which means it's a one.
 So this is a nice, this is basically not,
 you could make an integer field and we could code
 in our Python code these numbers and these strings
 but there's a lot of value in using
 the administrator interface now
 and having these values known inside the data model
 rather than just coding them throughout
 all the Python code that we write.
 So when this is all said and done,
 what we have is two foreign keys,
 two outbound foreign keys like you would expect,
 a created and updated app that's totally maintained
 by Django for us and then modeled at the connection
 a role like are you a teacher, are you a student?
 Okay, and so that's a little more sophisticated
 kind of many-to-many model and we can talk to this
 in the Django shell, Python 3, many manage.py shell.
 You know, we import the models from the application models
 that this is really reading the models.py file
 from the many folder, import the person model,
 the course model, membership, those are Python classes.
 We're gonna make a person and save it.
 We're gonna make a course and save it.
 We can check the ID to prove that.
 We can look at all of the members values,
 that's a query set and then with nothing in it
 and then we can create a membership
 and we give membership.instructor,
 this is that number, right?
 I think that was like 1,000 or 5,000 I think what that was
 and then courses_c, whoops, how come it's not around?
 There we go, courses_c in person is p,
 that's taking from the p and c variable that we just created.
 We are basically populating the true table
 with the two objects from which we'll figure out
 what that foreign key is and then we save it.
 We can see that it's been saved by looking at ID
 and so we can see these things like c members values now.
 We can see that this is the person
 who is a member of that particular course
 and we can see what courses Ted is in
 and Ted's in Woodcraft.
 And so this is just another example using the shell
 to talk to some many-to-many relations.
 So up next we're gonna show
 how we do these shell-like operations
 but we're actually gonna just write Python code
 rather than typing Python code.
 (upbeat music)
