 - Hello, and welcome to our lecture on AJAX and JSON.
 I'm Dr. Earl Severance, and I'm your professor,
 and I just wanna, I got a nice Father's Day gift
 from my daughter, and so I'm, to thank her,
 I'm wearing it for this particular lecture.
 So, we have been doing a whole bunch of stuff
 with the request-response cycle, right?
 We go in the server, we run through URLs,
 we enter views, we write templates, we send HTML back,
 and the browser parses that response
 and puts it in the document object model,
 and then most of what we've done has been just sort of fiddling
 with the document object model with JavaScript,
 but now we're going to take another important step,
 and that is, we're going to do things
 in the document object model,
 and to the document object model,
 where the JavaScript itself is going to make requests
 to our server code, gonna run through the views,
 run through the URLs, and send data back.
 So the difference is, we're not just sending markup back,
 HTML is our markup format,
 and JSON is our data format.
 So, the web is pretty old now.
 We started on 2003,
 and the request-response cycle was pretty cool,
 and lots of software, lots of libraries,
 lots of languages knew how to talk back and forth
 across the internet and get data,
 and the question was, is why don't we get something
 other than HTML, and then the argument became
 what was the syntax that we should use,
 and you can look at my shirt here, somewhere here,
 right there's my shirt, you got some curly braces,
 and then you got some slashes,
 and that actually turned out to be the argument.
 The argument was whether or not you would use XML, right?
 Whether you use XML or curly braces.
 Now, XML was the first thing,
 and if we hear the word Ajax, that x stands for XML,
 but most of the time we are not sending XML back and forth,
 we're sending JSON back and forth.
 So the idea of moving data across the network,
 we had to agree on what's called a wire format,
 or you could think of it as the network,
 as if we're watching it on a wire and it's going by,
 what would we actually send?
 'Cause in PHP we have arrays,
 in Python we have dictionaries,
 in JavaScript we have objects, and Java has things
 like hash maps and array lists.
 And the question is, what are we gonna send back and forth?
 We gotta agree on it, so that we can write something
 in Python and read it in JavaScript,
 and similarly write it in PHP,
 and then read it in JavaScript,
 so we have to agree on a wire format.
 And XML is one of the wire formats,
 we're not gonna talk about it,
 'cause that argument is kinda over.
 XML is not bad for documents at rest,
 but it's not a real good wire format.
 So we'll just pretend that JSON is the wire format,
 even though it is a wire format.
 The idea is, is that we have to take a structure
 that's inside a server, and we have to serialize it,
 which means convert it to a string.
 So it's a Python dictionary,
 which is object-oriented mechanisms
 that make all this stuff work.
 And then we have to say, oh, let's turn this into a string,
 'cause we have to send characters across the internet,
 and then when we receive it on the far end,
 we do what's called deserialize,
 and the word serial means
 that we're sending it kinda one character at a time,
 back in the old days when we used modems,
 and leased lines, and things like that,
 though see my internet history for some of that.
 So we deserialize it,
 and it becomes sort of an object in JavaScript,
 in this case, if we're going from Python to JavaScript.
 But the idea is that the wire format
 is something we agree on,
 and so it doesn't matter what language we're dealing with,
 the wire format is something each language
 has to be able to serialize, to send,
 and deserialize to receive.
 So I have a video, an interview that I did a long time ago
 with a fellow named Douglas Cockford,
 he does not claim he's the inventor of JSON,
 he's just the person who said,
 wow, this is a really cool format, and let's write it down.
 And it's really nothing more than a slight adjustment
 to the object literal notation, meaning the constant,
 what a constant is in JavaScript
 when you wanna just assign a constant.
 So we say X equals two, two's that constant,
 but you can also say X equals curly brace something.
 And so he's like, well, why don't we just use this?
 And he called it JSON, and he registered JSON.org,
 and it just turns out, I really wish I knew
 the extent to which imitating the Python dictionary syntax
 was part of the goal.
 In some ways, it's almost more similar
 to Python dictionary syntax when you're doing key value pairs, when the keys are strings
 in Python dictionary. So this is some legitimate JavaScript code. This is a constant. I could
 say who equals X or I could see who equals open curly brace, name colon Chuck, age colon
 29, college colon true, you know, strings, integers, Booleans, you can have lists and
 you can have objects within objects and lists within objects and blah blah blah blah blah
 blah. So it's a pretty simple syntax. I mean, part of the thing that Crockford argues is
 that it's just a syntax that any developer, if left alone long enough, would just invent
 it. And I have to agree with that. I have to say that this syntax, I can't say, whoa,
 I don't like this. I wish I could improve on it somehow. So the JSON syntax is not exactly
 the same as the JavaScript syntax. It's kind of like, let's keep it simple and have a subset
 of the JavaScript object literal syntax. And so I've got a sample, some sample code that
 you can go play with. And all it does is it says who equals open curly brace, blah blah
 blah, blah, blah, exactly the code I showed you before and console dot log it. That's
 all it does. It doesn't print it. It doesn't send it across the network. It doesn't do
 anything. It just console dot logs it. And you see that that is the way we define a constant
 object. An object is a constant. But that's not so interesting. What is more interesting
 is when we can produce code inside of the server in, say, Python and then send it to
 a browser. So here we have a very simple view. And the sample code is up there on DJ4E.com
 for you to look at. And we are going to have a JSON fun path. This is going to be a function
 style view. Time sleep is just so that when you play with a sample, it pauses for just
 a moment. Normally you wouldn't pause. So we just construct a dictionary. That's a Python
 dictionary. And again, wow. It looks a lot like a JavaScript object. But if you do it
 in PHP, it looks quite different. If you do it in Java, it looks quite different. But
 it turns out in Python and JavaScript, they're very similar. And then we're returning JSON
 response and then handing that dictionary. Now normally when we have a normal HTML page,
 we're sending back an HTTP response. And we're sending a string back. But this time we're
 sending a JSON response. And we're sending an object back. Django sees JSON response
 and says, I'm going to set the headers the right way. I'm going to serialize this. And
 I'm going to send this thing out as a string. And so if you go to this endpoint, JSON fun,
 when you look at it in raw data, you see that it's been compressed into a string. That's
 really curly brace, double quote, yada yada. Now you also see your browser sometimes shows
 it parsed, meaning it's showing it after parsing. So you can see the raw data before parsing.
 And then you can actually see the JSON data after parsing. It's kind of the same thing.
 It's just one's a string and one is an object. And part and parcel of moving JSON back and
 forth to the browser is you got things like the content type, which is application slash
 JSON rather than text slash HTML. And then there's other things like content size, et
 cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So that's about all there is to JSON. It's so simple. It's
 so elegant. So up next, we're going to talk about doing a chat app, which really brings
 together a lot of this JavaScript, JavaScript objects, JavaScript in the browser and JSON.
