 So now we're going to bring all this together
 and we're going to build a simple multi-user chat application
 that moves data through the server using Ajax and JSON.
 So the idea here is we've got a simple chat
 and things are going to happen.
 And we're going to use two tabs to simulate two users.
 And the idea is whatever you enter in the first tab,
 it's going to asynchronously merely appear in the second tab.
 And we're going to use polling to do this.
 And we're going to use polling every four seconds,
 which is a very inefficient way to do this.
 But for now, it's the simplest way
 I can show you in a hurry what's going on.
 Every four seconds, both windows are making a request
 to this URL called messages that is a JSON endpoint.
 And they get back an array of the recent messages,
 both the message text and a little nice time indicator,
 like a minute ago or two minutes ago or something like that.
 And so this happens every four seconds.
 And that's why this is not at all best practice.
 Not only is it not best practice for that,
 but I'm returning an array in JSON.
 And you're really not supposed to do that.
 You're supposed to return an object.
 Even if the main data is an array,
 you want an outer encapsulating object.
 But again, I'm trying to keep this as simple and short
 as I possibly can.
 So if we take a look at the urls.py,
 and again, I got a nice walkthrough
 if you want to see this version in walkthrough.
 I have the main view that's talk.
 And then messages is that JSON view.
 And I have a little spinner that you can see
 when it first starts up.
 And then there's a simple model where we've got some text
 and who typed it in and what time it was created
 and if there's any updating.
 In this case, there's no updating.
 But we need the date of the thing
 so we can say it's two minutes ago.
 And so if you take a look at the views.py,
 the talk main simply shows the main page and then is done.
 And when we hit the chat button or post button,
 it comes back to the post and we save the message.
 And then we redirect back to ourselves, back to the talk.
 So if you look at the template, talk.htm,
 you see we have a simple form.
 That's got a text field and a submit button named post.
 And importantly, this div id chat content
 that has a spinning GIF as its content.
 And you're gonna see that we're gonna delete this.
 And so one of the reasons I make it wait two seconds
 is that you can see this when it comes up
 and you can see the spinner happening.
 But then once the JavaScript takes over,
 it actually deletes the spinner and replaces it with the messages.
 So this div is a placeholder for us to put the chat content,
 which we're going to put in using JavaScript.
 And here's the main JavaScript.
 We have a function called updateMessage and it does a fetch.
 And it does a fetch to the URL messages.
 The cache node storage just says every time I ask to fetch it,
 give me a new copy of it.
 And then I have a couple of promises.
 The first promise says the response has been started
 and I'd like to retrieve the response and convert it
 as if it were JSON data.
 And then the second promise takes as its parameters
 the converted JSON data, meaning the rows with a Z is an object,
 which in this case is an array.
 And so we basically log that so we can see it.
 Then we go and say document get all my ID chat content.
 That's that div.
 InnerHTML is nothing.
 That is deleting either the previous list of messages
 or the spinner.
 So we're gonna empty it out and then we're gonna fill it back up.
 So we're gonna loop through this set of rows that we got back.
 And for each row, we're going to append a paragraph tag.
 So plus equals there is appending to the current innerHTML.
 We can just treat this innerHTML as a variable, right?
 We can read it and we can write it.
 And plus equals means we're appending to it.
 We append a p tag.
 We append the first part of the row, which is the message.
 Then a br tag and two non-breaking spaces.
 And then the second part, which is how long ago it was,
 which we generated in the server.
 And then an end of a p tag.
 And then we set a timeout so that we do this again in four seconds,
 4,000 milliseconds actually.
 And then there's a catch that just alerts.
 Now, the way this stuff usually works is that
 it usually works or it blows up badly.
 And so I just have a catch that says here's the error.
 And hopefully it doesn't happen very often,
 but maybe the error could either be I made a mistake in the server.
 And if you're doing software development,
 chances are good that you're going to make a mistake in the server.
 And that's a reason to put this alert there.
 In the real world, once your server code is nice and clean
 and doesn't have errors in it,
 then they probably lost their network connection
 or your server went down or something like that
 in the middle of every four seconds getting this new data.
 And then at the end, we have an event listener, DOMContentLoaded,
 which we've talked about before.
 And we simply run a function to do a set timeout of update message
 two seconds after the DOMContent is loaded.
 And that's what these lines tell us to do.
 And remember that update message doesn't actually call it right there.
 It's in a string.
 And it says after two seconds,
 parse this JavaScript string and run it.
 And that's what's happening here.
 So we take a look at views.py.
 We're doing a GET request.
 And this is the one where we're sending a JSON response.
 We're going to retrieve the messages,
 the most recent 10 messages ordered into sending order by created at.
 And then we're going to process it.
 Now, it's pretty common not to just send the objects back.
 We want to do a little processing.
 And so we're sending back the message text.
 And then this natural time, which is a Django library
 that makes up this 13 minutes ago, 14 minutes ago.
 We go through the array that is the list of objects
 that we got from Django's model.
 And then we're going to make another one,
 which is the only the pieces we want to give to our front end code.
 And then we return a JSON response with results,
 which is an array, which then is serialized into an array.
 And it's actually an array of arrays.
 And that is serialized then into an array of an arrays and sent back to it.
 And then we go back to the code here.
 If you look there, that is looping through the data
 that came back from the messages view in JSON.
 And so, you know, again, that's what happens.
 It's just every four seconds, it runs through and retrieves the JSON,
 clears out that div, then fills it back up with whatever they are.
 And if nothing changed, you don't even see a blanket.
 It all happens so rapidly, partly because it's all done asynchronously.
 And that is that we are not actually touching the DOM
 until we've got the data to replace it.
 And then we do it so fast and we're done.
 And then we give the browser back the thread and then it redisplays,
 which means it's not kind of displaying one piece at a time.
 You are modifying the DOM and it doesn't update the window
 until you return from the function.
 So in summary, JSON is very powerful.
 These are pretty short lectures, actually.
 It is very well supported and performs extremely well in many languages.
 I mean, it's over 20 years old now.
 And every language has to be really good at JSON.
 Back in the early days, you'd have to go find a JSON library.
 Now it's just built in.
 It's built into the browsers, it's built into Python, it's built into PHP.
 It's built into everything.
 And so Python and Django and JavaScript have excellent support.
 So it's a great way to build applications.
 [MUSIC]
