 And welcome to our quick walkthrough of using models in Django.
 Again, we're working through the Mozilla Developer Network
 tutorial, so we're in this tutorial about using models.
 Now this tutorial has a lot of useful information,
 so it's designing the local library models.
 This is something you should read carefully and understand.
 Hopefully you've had some data model design before
 or watched some information about data model design,
 but so we have sort of authors and books and genres
 and with the language and books and how they're checked out.
 So just read all this.
 This talks about how we define these models,
 take from that diagram and turn the models into Django models,
 how we add fields to those models,
 how we add foreign keys, logical keys, et cetera, et cetera.
 And so just, I'm going through this fast,
 just I want you to read all that.
 And what I'm gonna do is jump down to this
 defining local library models 'cause this is sort of
 the work that you've gotta do.
 So once you understand all that
 through whatever way you understand it,
 we're going to go ahead to our Python Anywhere account
 and start a new bash console.
 And then we're going to say work on Django 2.
 Pick our virtual environment.
 Then we're going to go CD Django projects.
 I say DJ tab there and then local library is the project.
 And if we take a look, we've got the catalog.
 Local library is the configuration.
 We've been editing these files all along.
 And so here we are.
 If you recall, we've run the SQLite command in previous
 that we can see what's in here.
 We're gonna be adding some new tables.
 So we're going to edit the file catalog, models.py.
 I'll use nano to edit that.
 And it has something in there.
 It's exactly as predicted here.
 And then we're gonna add,
 I'm just gonna add one of the models.
 There's several that we've gotta add,
 but for now I'm just going to paste that one in
 and control X, Y, enter.
 And so now if I do a get status,
 you can see that I made one small change.
 Okay, so once we've made this change,
 this whole concept of make migrations,
 all make migrations does,
 it looks at all the models.py file.
 And there's some in there already for the administration,
 which we're gonna see in the next assignment.
 This looks at the models.
 Now this one's gonna detect changes.
 So oh, there's a new model in that file.
 So we have to create what's called a migration.
 Migration is a script that basically creates new tables
 or updates tables, et cetera.
 So we're gonna run the make migrations.
 And then we're gonna actually do the migration.
 So these are separate.
 So the migrations would get,
 if we were running in production,
 you might check the migration into GitHub
 and then run migrate both locally
 and on your production server.
 So we'll just do the migrate right away.
 And the migrate is what is actually creating
 a new table.
 And we already did kind of a git status.
 We can see that we got two new files.
 We'll deal with those in a second.
 Okay, but now we're gonna run this command right here,
 sqlite3, and we're gonna read that database file.
 So if we take a look at the files, it's this file.
 So that is how we do it.
 So we're gonna sqlite command line browser.
 You can see how to use this, but dot tables.
 We see this new one.
 So if you looked at it before,
 you saw all these things.
 But now because we've added this new model file,
 we have this catalog.genre.
 So schema tells us what the shape, copy, paste.
 So this tells us a SQL create table
 that would be necessary to create this.
 We have a primary key named ID
 and then a name field.
 So that's a pretty simple table.
 And if we take a look at the migration, that's what we had.
 We had this name, which was basically some text.
 Okay, and the ID is automatically generated.
 It's the primary key that's automatically generated.
 So that's the way we go.
 So yeah, so you can either hit control D or dot quit.
 I'll hit control D here.
 So here we are.
 And so now we can edit this again.
 This time we'll use vi, catalogmodels.py.
 Again, learn to use that tab.
 Go to the end with a zero G, zero capital G.
 And now I'm just gonna kind of blast these things in here.
 Copy these guys.
 It'd be better for you to understand this.
 So one of the problems that people have, I think,
 open, don't put a new line,
 is people are so much in a hurry
 to get through these tutorials,
 and of course I'm blasting through them too,
 that you just type this and you just put it back in
 without understanding it.
 And that just means that you're gonna have to come back
 and you're gonna have to actually learn this
 when it comes time to writing an application
 that you're doing yourself.
 And then the author model.
 Let's look at these for a little bit of time.
 I'm just showing you how to do it here.
 So you're not wasting too much time
 watching me on the video.
 Escape colon WQ to save it.
 If I do a get diff.
 This is a more prompt here, this little colon.
 So I've got a genre model, a book model,
 a book instance model, and an author model.
 So those are the actually, an author model.
 And then Q gets me out of that.
 These are basically the models that represent,
 in a sense, everything except the language.
 Okay, and so you've gotta actually add the language here
 and it's kinda telling you where you're supposed
 to hook the language up, what kind of a thing.
 So you in this challenge, you've gotta add the language.
 Okay, so there's a challenge down here.
 Figure out where to hook it up, read all these models,
 and then add a language model and get that right as well.
 Connect it to the right place.
 Again, there's a bunch of stuff that you gotta read.
 That's unfortunate.
 So see this thing about language model?
 You gotta do this too.
 I'm not gonna do it in this video.
 So now that we've got these things done,
 we're gonna run the make migrations again.
 So it's gonna have two migrations when we're done.
 I could've done all the edits and done one migration,
 but I just wanted to show you,
 and then I wanna do the migrate to actually create the tables.
 Okay, and so if I do an SQLite,
 and I look at .tables, you see now I got a lot more.
 I've got like, this genre was there before,
 but now I've got like catalog author,
 and I can say .schema.
 Catalog author, and we see the primary key,
 the first name, the last name, date of birth, date of death,
 and that of course is taken straight
 from these things right here.
 So this is called an object-relational mapper,
 which takes this author object and then turns it
 into a set of tables in a database
 and does joins automatically.
 We'll get to all that eventually.
 So .quit or Control + D gets us out of that,
 so we've seen that, and at that point, we're all done.
 We've got our model created.
 If we are doing this in GitHub,
 oops, where'd I just go, where am I?
 Local library, pwd, local library, there I am.
 So if I do a git status here,
 so you can see all the things that have been added
 in my local library, and then I'm gonna just say
 git add catalog migration star,
 because all these added files aren't there yet.
 So that's okay, PyCache, something you'd never wanna add,
 it just ended up in that star, so it's okay.
 Git status, so these are the added files
 and the catalog files, and then we're gonna commit that
 and push it into our git repo.
 Okay, so now I typed in my password,
 and so it's all set up, and just for our own sanity,
 we're gonna give ourselves another tag in our GitHub repo
 just so we can keep track of the fact that,
 'cause you might have made a couple of commits.
 We only made one commit, I did,
 'cause I knew what I was doing,
 and then we'll upload the tags to GitHub,
 and so if I look at GitHub,
 csev Django projects,
 see we got five commits,
 that one we just did, and two releases,
 the skeleton release and the models release.
 And so that pretty much finishes things up for the,
 oh, let me just show you one more thing.
 I'm gonna hit Control + D to end this,
 or exit will do it, but I hit Control + D,
 and that closed the console.
 You may need to download and turn in
 as a part of your assignment the SQLite file.
 So you go into Django projects, local library,
 and dbsqlite, and then you download it right here.
 So it downloads that file, and then you end up
 with this file locally on your hard drive.
 And so if you have a command line on your computer,
 or the SQLite browser on the computer,
 you can look at this, and you may have to turn it in
 as part of your assignment.
 So that's how you download the file if you need to do that.
 Okay, so thanks for listening,
 and to our little discussion of Django models.
 (upbeat jazz music)
 you
