 - Hello, and welcome to another walk-through for Django
 for everybody.
 This is kind of a supplement to tutorial two.
 In tutorial two, you're playing with models.py,
 and if you go through the tutorial,
 they'll have you do a thing, and then they'll do another thing,
 and they're kind of showing you migrations
 and how the migrations happen.
 And if you get 'em to have a mistake,
 you know, if you make a mistake, then you
 can get to the point where you need help or whatever,
 and sometimes it's easier to just wipe out your database.
 But if you've added a question or added some choices
 or built models, you've got to do all that stuff.
 But it's sometimes just easier to redo some of those things.
 So I'm going to show you what to do if your model/database gets
 messed up.
 And like your manage.py make migrations and migrate
 are not doing what you think, or they're giving you weird errors.
 Now, if they're getting a syntax error,
 make sure you do a Python manage.py check, right,
 before you declare that your database is messed up.
 So let me go into my site.
 So here I am now.
 Here's all my files.
 So here I should do it, but before I declare that the database
 is a problem, manage.py check.
 Oh, I messed that up.
 I'm in my virtual environment, of course.
 OK, so we got no issues now.
 So that's good.
 So I've got a couple of commands here.
 Let me explain this.
 Before I'm going to actually delete these,
 I want to show you where the migration--
 I'll probably show you this.
 So I have a thing called polls2, and I got all the polls running.
 So this is like in tutorial 2.
 The migrations are in files with a number,
 and they're Python files.
 So if you recall, migrations are portable representations
 of what happens in the database.
 And then the migrate creates the file db.sqlite.
 So if you want to really start over,
 you've got to get rid of both the migrations and the db.sqlite
 file, and then you can start completely fresh.
 I mean, you can sort of do parts of them,
 but I'm like, if you're messed up here in tutorial 2,
 it's probably easier to just get rid of them both.
 So at this point, my application is going to stop working.
 So I get rid of the migrations, and then I
 get rid of my database.
 And so at this point, the only thing
 I've got that has to do with anything
 that has to do with my database is a few models.py files.
 And this is where we are editing our code,
 and so this polls to models.py.
 And my particular example is the code
 that's going to be effective, because just because I've
 got all the versions running at the same time,
 that's why you're seeing this.
 So the next thing you do is python3 or python manage.py
 make migrations.
 So what make migrations is doing is
 it's reading all these models.py files,
 and it's writing this file.
 So I got rid of that file, but now if I do an ls,
 you'll see that it's come back.
 And sometimes you might see an 002, et cetera,
 and then you throw it away, and you make it fresh,
 and you should only see an 001.
 And then you can say python manage py migrate.
 And then that, well, if you'll do an ls--
 let me Control-C there.
 If I do an ls, you'll see that there--
 wait a second.
 How come that-- no, the dbsqlite3 is zero size.
 So I'm going to do python3 or python manage--
 sorry, my mac migrate.
 So that's reading these files, plus a whole bunch
 of other ones, and actually creating databases.
 So now if I say ls minus l, my dbsqlite3 is back,
 and I might have to create a super user.
 If I created a super user account,
 then I'm going to have to create one again.
 And so I'm going to do that.
 j4e choc.
 Csave@umrsh.edu.
 I should make my passwords easier to type.
 Now at this point, things should start working.
 But again, if I created any data,
 like a question or something, it was gone.
 It was gone at that moment.
 When I got rid of that database, dbsqlite3,
 it is literally gone.
 So it's gone now, and away we go.
 And again, this is just if you can't
 seem to make these migrations or migrates work,
 back up, start over, and then reduce some of the work.
 And that probably will be a good way to get things done.
 Cheers.
