 - Hello and welcome to another walkthrough for Django for everybody.
 In this walkthrough, we're going to walk through
 Django project tutorial four, except we're doing it on Python anywhere
 because we do everything for this class on Python anywhere.
 And so the key thing is, is this Django tutorial,
 this is tutorial two, the tutorial is from
 the Django project website is great, but it's generic, right?
 The tutorial is generic and can be used in many situations,
 including just using your own computer to do development.
 But we have to accomplish this on Python anywhere.
 And so if you get stuck, don't go back to tutorial one because you already finished
 tutorial one based on the instructions I gave you on how to do it on Python anywhere.
 So I gave you my own instructions for the tutorial one, but
 now I'm gonna give you the instructions for tutorial two that have to do with Python anywhere.
 So I gave you this mapping here, so
 the tutorial will say something like open my site settings.py, let's go find that.
 Right, it says open up my site settings.py, that's not exactly what,
 it is what you do, but where that is on Python anywhere is important.
 It's in Django projects, my site, my site settings.py.
 And they tell you, if they tell you to go into Django tutorial,
 which is the folder they created, we're not gonna do that.
 We're gonna cd tilde, tilde the squiggle is your home directory,
 Django underscore project slash my site, okay?
 And I'll go through these, but you can come back, and if you're typing a command and
 it doesn't seem to work, you might be in the wrong folder.
 Or if you type manage run server, it's gonna blow up, right?
 And so you wanna do the things, it tells you that you're supposed to say
 cd tilde Django projects, my site, python manage py check.
 And then you reload the web application, the web tab.
 So I'm gonna do all these things and try to call out each of the times
 where we're doing what the tutorial is saying,
 we're just doing it the way it has to be done on Python anywhere.
 So armed with the above mapping, let's go do the tutorial.
 Now when you're doing this work, it's important to kinda keep track.
 I like to use lots of tabs while I'm doing things.
 And so I know that this is where I'm at in this tutorial 02 instructions.
 These are my instructions.
 Now over here, I've got Django's instructions.
 And then over here, I have my Python anywhere.
 So keep tabs open so you can move back and forth.
 If you get stuck, remember, maybe even take a screenshot that says this is
 where I got stuck, right here or whatever.
 So know where you got stuck or if you're down on this tutorial and
 you're like working on this part right here and that's not working.
 Take a screenshot so that you remember what's not working if you're gonna need
 some help.
 Okay, so let's go ahead and go through it.
 So the cheat sheet, you can always come back to the cheat sheet, but
 we're just going to start doing the instructions.
 So here we go, database setup, we're gonna set up a database.
 We're gonna open mysitesettings.py.
 Let's go find where that's at on, and this is there from our doing of tutorial one.
 So you'll see how I'm always opening things in new tabs, right?
 These, I'm gonna start editing files.
 And you're going to go into Django projects, MySite.
 And then there's a folder called MySite within the MySite folder, MySite, MySite.
 And then polls is the thing that you did to make the little poll application.
 But for now, it's telling you to go into settings.
 Settings.py is always in Django projects, MySite, MySite.
 So we're in settings.py.
 So that's how you do this thing, right?
 Open MySite settings.py, it's normal Python module, blah, blah, blah.
 By default, databases configuration uses SQLite, and we wanna stay that way.
 We wanna keep, and so don't customize your database.
 You can go ahead and set time zone if you want.
 I'm not gonna set it, you can talk to AI.
 So also note the installed apps at the top of the file.
 So let's take a look at settings.
 So you see this installed apps.
 This is a Python list, this code is Python, it gets load.
 Django loads this program, this settings.py when it's loading your application.
 And this is the list of applications that are installed.
 Now all these Django contributes, all these,
 these are things that came with Django, so it's no big deal.
 But you are gonna be changing this.
 So keep an eye on this.
 So we're going through the instructions.
 It's telling you that the admin for the mid-site, auth for
 logging in, content type, session framework, messaging framework, static files.
 So we'll have all that stuff that's sitting there.
 Okay, so these applications need at least one database table.
 So we'll need to create the database.
 To do that, run the following command.
 Okay, that is gonna be confusing.
 Now if you go back, and it says, Do this.
 You're supposed to go into a console shell and then type this command.
 And then type the Python manage, I mean eventually type the right command.
 It's just where you typed in my command.
 So we are going to go here and I'm gonna open yet another window.
 I'm gonna open the consoles.
 So you played with these consoles already.
 I don't have any bash consoles.
 So I could reuse one if it was already there, but I'm just gonna start a new one.
 Now the key to these consoles, first it always should say your virtual environment.
 Maybe it's 6.2 or whatever, but it should always say your virtual environment.
 And you can also always say pwcd to where you're at.
 So if you look, I'm in the working directory home.doctor.chuk.
 If I'm sitting in files, it's home.doctor.chuk/jangleprojects/mysite/mysite.
 Okay, and so let's go back and see what it's telling us to do.
 Python manage py migrate.
 Looking here, it says cd jango projects mysite.
 So that migrate command just has to be run in your folder.
 Part of it is, if you're running this on your local computer, you have one folder.
 But now you are in a folder that is a group of people.
 So there's other people, like Dr. Chuck is my account.
 Your account is home something, right?
 But now we're in the my site, my site, not my site, my site, we're in my site.
 And you'll see that manage.py shows.
 And if I go here and I go into my site, you'll see that manage.py is there as well.
 Don't open it, don't edit it, leave it alone, it was created by Python for us.
 Okay, so let's see what we're supposed to type.
 We're supposed to type python manage py migrate.
 And this is going to, so let me show you something here.
 So there is a database.
 Let's see if it's going to work or not.
 Python manage py migrate, yeah.
 So this is a bunch of database tables that are being created for Django itself.
 Okay, you're going to create your own in a little bit.
 But this python manage py migrate says, create all the tables that are needed for
 in, and it wrote them in this file called a dbsqlite3.
 Create all the tables that are needed in that particular database.
 So you get the idea.
 It tells you to do something, you kind of check to make sure the right way to do it.
 And then you go ahead and do it, I'll change the order of these.
 So let's go back here.
 So it looks at the, migrate looks at the installed apps.
 So it looked at the installed apps.
 And it said, let's do all the migrations for these applications that make up
 our Django project.
 We're going to build another one in a second.
 Come back, Chuck.
 Okay.
 So we're going to create some models.
 We're going to create our own models.
 And it says, edit the polls models.py so it looks like this.
 Now this is Python.
 So you got to go into my site, polls, models.py.
 So this is an empty thing that Django created when it made a stub application.
 But we're going to put, oops, that copy did not work so well.
 Copy this, copy, go to models.py and paste, there we go.
 So this is some Python.
 And it's Python, you can make a mistake, right?
 I can just screw up the indentation here, right?
 And it'll blow up.
 So you got to write good Python, but here it is.
 So then you're going to have to say, save, okay?
 And then tell us what it wants us to do here.
 So these are, it's going to be a table, a question table with two columns and
 a choice table with three columns, one of which is a foreign key that points back to
 a row in the questions, and that's all in the SQL part, okay?
 So we're going to activate this model.
 So we have to tell our Django that we have added a polls app,
 otherwise it will not go read models.py.
 So we're going to take this polls apps polls config and go into my site,
 settings.py, we're done here, my site, my site, settings.py.
 Go in and add one line to installed apps, polls, apps, polls config.
 Then we're going to save it.
 Now Django knows how to include the polls app.
 Let's run another command.
 Now, python manage.py make migrations polls.
 It is important that this runs in the folder
 that has the manage.py in it.
 So if I was, I'd have to cd into tilde slash Django project slash my site.
 But then I'm in that, and I can say, oops, I didn't copy it all right.
 So let's go back and copy it, Python manage.py make migrations polls.
 So, and it tells us that's what it's supposed to look like.
 That's what it's supposed to look like.
 And then, so it turns out that there are two steps to actually creating
 the database tables.
 One is, and I've got a whole lecture on this, make migrations.
 And then the next is migrate, which actually creates the database tables.
 So we'll run this command, and it's the migration 001.
 And what it's doing is it's going to show the SQL.
 This is SQL, this is the SQL programming language, okay?
 And so that is looking at the migration that we created right here.
 And it's showing it to us.
 So this SQL migrate did not actually run the migration.
 It shows us what it's going to run, okay?
 So now we wanna actually run the migrate.
 So migrate knows which ones have run.
 And it knows that these have already run, but we've got a new one in polls.
 And it's just gonna run the migrations for polls.
 And now it has created a database table for us.
 So there's a polls table now.
 So the migrate command takes all the migrations that haven't been applied.
 Django tracks which ones have been applied, and
 then runs the new ones against the database,
 keeping the database caught up with the migrations.
 So if you ever change your models.py, you have to do two steps.
 You run Python manage py make migrations to make migrations for
 the changes in models, and then you run migrate.
 Now I'm gonna run these right now and you will see that I didn't change models.py.
 So I'm gonna do make migrations, and it says no change is detected.
 And then I'm going to run migrate, oops.
 Come on, let me highlight, there we go.
 Migrate, and it's gonna say nothing to do.
 That's okay, that's exactly what we would expect it to do at this point.
 So we're going to play with the API in the shell, okay?
 And so this, if you go back, you can check.
 When it's telling you to run the shell, it says make sure you're in the console and
 you're in the right folder, but we are in the right folder.
 So we're just gonna grab manage py shell.
 Now, this is loading all of Django up and giving you an interactive prompt.
 Now, this prompt is a Python prompt, but it also includes all of Django loaded up.
 So I can say print hello world, and it's the three chevron prompt.
 So this is Python, it's just Python.
 So what we're doing in this is we are playing with
 the question objects, which were autoloaded because they're in manage.py.
 So if we say question objects all, okay?
 So, I will let you do these.
 I'm gonna edit this out, and so you can do this stuff.
 Follow this, follow these instructions.
 And that's an import because we're just running Python.
 So, we're creating a new question object, and
 we're putting it in the variable q.
 And then we're gonna store it in the database.
 And then we're gonna see that it has a row number, an ID, a row number.
 So that's row number 1 in the database.
 So we have this variable q, and it has a attribute,
 object orientation, the question text, and the publication date.
 And then what we can do is we can change the value, we can update it.
 So by taking this variable q is the question, and
 .questionText is an attribute within the question.
 So we can change it.
 Now we've changed it inside the memory of our Python application, but
 we haven't yet put it back into the database.
 And so we have to type q.save.
 Oops, q.save to store it in the database, okay?
 So now that's stored in the database.
 So they want us to make some changes to our models.py.
 So let's go find our models.py, mysite, polls, models.py.
 You gotta get used to where these little things are.
 Now this is a little hard part of this particular tutorial.
 Whenever you see dot dot like this,
 this doesn't mean just copy this whole thing and blast it in there.
 It's just saying add these two lines to the question model, and
 then add these two lines to the choice model.
 So I'm gonna copy the whole thing, but I'm not gonna overwrite.
 This is stuff that's working.
 What it means for you to do is it means for you to copy these lines up here,
 and it means to copy this line into the choice model.
 And I got an indentation error, so I gotta fix that.
 This is Python after all, so you gotta follow all these rules.
 So now we have affected the choice model and the questions model.
 So I'm gonna hit Save.
 And then we've added these because the double underscore stir,
 when you take an object and print it,
 it converts it to a string using this particular built in method.
 So you get to decide how you want stuff to happen.
 And you can also add some code to this, you can add some methods to your models.
 So I'm gonna just grab this bit, remember the dot, dot, dot says add that.
 So I'm gonna save it, oops, gonna save it.
 Now it's complaining, what's it complaining about?
 Undefined time zone, well it told us what to do.
 You got some imports you gotta add here.
 Don't wipe stuff out, just keep adding it.
 So I'll add those imports up here, now I'm gonna end up with this one twice.
 So I'll delete the duplicate, and now I'll save it, and
 the little error message goes away.
 Okay, so now if you want to start a new Python interactive shell,
 if we go back to our console here, we have to say, what do they tell us to say?
 Exit, so now we're out of Python and back into bash.
 And all we're gonna do is we're gonna restart the shell.
 Now I'm gonna hit the up arrow key, python manage py shell, and so I'm back in.
 So I hit the up arrow key to rerun the previous command and then hit enter, okay?
 So you'll notice it imported a bunch of stuff for us.
 So let's set up our Django application.
 So let's continue on with the question objects all.
 So there you go, there's one question there.
 But now what's showing is it's showing that double underscore stir is showing
 the right thing.
 So I'm gonna let you do the rest of this yourself.
 Just do all this, it should work.
 You gotta add some things, you're gonna grab a question and
 then you're gonna add choices to it.
 And question choice set, create choice text, votes equals zero.
 And then you're gonna save all that stuff, okay?
 So at the end of this, you're going to have to say exit to get out.
 So dot, dot, dot, do all that work, exit to get out and
 get back to the bash console.
 So when you see three chevrons and you need to get out, go to the bash console.
 If you wanna go back into the shell, you can.
 You can go in and out of the shell as many times as you want.
 Okay, so the next thing we're gonna do is use the Django administrator.
 And we're gonna type python manage py create super user.
 And again, you have to be in the right folder when you're doing this.
 Django project's my site.
 So I'm gonna make a user, I'm gonna call admin.
 The email address doesn't matter.
 So I gave it a crappy password, but I don't care.
 So I'm gonna use it anyway.
 So now I've made a user for the administration user interface.
 Don't use, in this, don't use any good passwords.
 By the way, when I'm typing that password, it's not echoing, okay?
 And that's normal.
 Don't freak out.
 It echoes when you type the username and
 it echoes when you type the email address, but it doesn't echo.
 You just gotta type init, enter.
 Okay, so here is the thing that makes it most complex.
 Let's see what happens when I type python manage py run server.
 Yeah, you'll get a different error message.
 I've got this thing that kind of patches the manage.py to complain about it,
 that you're not supposed to run server on Python anywhere.
 You'll get some funky error message that will be like ports not available or
 not in use, says you're supposed to run python manage py check.
 And if you go look at my thing, it says, when it says to run python manage py
 run server, go into my site and type python manage py check.
 So check is like checking, run server checks the configuration and
 runs the server.
 You get, all we're gonna do is check the configuration.
 So you wanna say, it's working and it looks good.
 But then you have got to go reload your application in the web tab or
 text editor.
 So we got this web tab, there's this reload.
 And that tells Python Anywhere that you have edited the files and
 it's time to reload your application, okay?
 Now the interesting thing is,
 is every file that you're editing has a reload your application button next to it.
 And that's this button here.
 This says reload drchuckpythonanywhere.com.
 This takes a while, so you gotta wait.
 And it's like gotta spinny thing, and it sometimes takes 30 seconds.
 Now, sometimes it takes too long and I wanna do it again.
 So, how come it's not working?
 So I'm gonna go here and I'm gonna say reload drchuckpythonanywhere.com.
 It should have worked.
 It's up, okay.
 So I don't know why, it's up down, just took a little while.
 Okay, so, and this is your actual website, drchuck.
 I call it youraccount.pythonanywhere.com.
 And I'm gonna open this in a new tab.
 And this has got your polls.
 If we go to /polls, you can see your tutorial one is still there, right?
 But if you recall, where there's this admin.
 And that admin is there because in the urls.py, my site.
 My site, urls.py, you basically imported.
 This is part of Django, the administrator user interface.
 And you mounted that administrator user interface at the path /admin.
 You mounted your polls application at the path's polls.
 And you have the administrator user interface, okay?
 So now I can go to /admin, oops, admin, and there we go.
 So let's see what we're doing.
 So, and it's telling you to go to localhost, but that's wrong too.
 And that's also in open localhost.
 Open your account on Python Anywhere Admin.
 So it's telling, this is the, again, the Rosetta Stone that's telling you,
 when it says this, you have to do that.
 Okay, so what the heck did I give myself a password?
 So I called it admin, I know what the password is.
 So I've got to go in here and I've got to type the admin account and
 the password to log in.
 Okay, so now I am in the administration user interface.
 I can add a user here.
 We don't generally do anything with groups.
 So now we have logged in to the administration user interface.
 So we see we got groups and users.
 Now what we want to do is take the database tables that we just created,
 the question and the choice, and
 we want to put this into the administration user interface.
 We want our question and choices to appear in there.
 And this is what it's going to tell us how to do.
 And so you can go and edit the file polesadmin.py and
 copy all this stuff into my site, polesadmin.py.
 And we'll save this, and then we'll reload our application.
 Every time you save a file, you got to reload the application.
 And now you got to go back and reload your website.
 And now you've got a questions area.
 And if you go in there, you see the one question that you created
 in the Django shell, you created this question, and it's sitting there.
 Now, for the autograder, you're going to have to add a question and some choices.
 And so if you take a look in my little autograder, it gives you a little clue.
 It says, when it tells you to put this into my site, polesadmin.py,
 put this in instead, and it'll make your job a lot easier.
 because this is registering the question model, and
 we got to register both the question model and the choice model.
 So I saved it, then I'm going to hit reload.
 And now I'm going to go back to the admin.
 Let's go to home.
 So now you see we've got both choices and questions.
 So you can add a choice, you can add a question, you can add a user.
 I'm going to let you do that all on your own.
 And so it tells you how to do this, and I'm going to let you do that.
 The autograder has you do some things.
 So I'll let you do the rest of that on your own.
 So I hope that this has been helpful for you to do Django tutorial two,
 but mapping it to Python anywhere.
 And that's where this little tutorial to Python anywhere.
 I'm not going to give you this mapping every assignment, right?
 Because after a while, it says Python managed by shell.
 You should know where to type that, or Python managed by run server.
 You should know to run managed by check and hit the little reload button.
 And then go hit the refresh on your application, okay?
 So I just kind of did this because it's the first one where you've got to read
 some content on the Internet and then map it to Python anywhere.
 And so part of the skill is learning how to do these things on Python anywhere, okay?
 I hope this helps, cheers.
 [MUSIC]
