 Our next topic is to talk about login and logout.
 Now just in general, I have this GitHub repository
 called DJ4E Samples, and every once in a while
 you ought to see if I've found some bugs and fixed them,
 so go over to your samples and do a git pull.
 So every once in a while, just do that.
 So Django, like in lots of situations,
 comes with a built-in login/logout system.
 There's lots of ways to do it, you can read up on it,
 it has a way to create users, has this nice admin interface,
 and so one of the things we like about Django
 is that we don't have to build
 some of these basic maintenance things.
 It has permissions and groups,
 we use this in the local library application,
 but we're not gonna use that so much in our applications,
 and passwords, et cetera, and it has a way
 to store these things in various techniques.
 And so the first thing that you'll probably encounter
 when you're doing this is to create a super user,
 and so you have to log into your system,
 you create a super user, give it a name, an email address,
 the email address is for password recovery,
 even though you can log in and you can change
 your super user password anywhere, and then you do it.
 Now there's a great XKCD cartoon for so many things,
 this is one guy says, "Make me a sandwich,"
 and the other one says, "What, make it yourself,"
 and then says, "S-U-D-O, make me a sandwich,"
 and the other person says, "Okay."
 So what S-U-D-O means is it's a Linux command
 to switch to the super user and do a command,
 so if you don't have permissions to do a command,
 you can say sudo a command, and so that's what this XKCD,
 so that's what we call super user,
 that's the user that has all permissions,
 doesn't need to get any special permissions.
 This might be a good time to review what you're going to do
 when you wipe out your database,
 when you create that super user, it just adds a row
 into a table in your DBSQL light,
 and you can wipe this out any time,
 that's why I like using SQLite for development
 in Django, if you remove it, you've removed all the tables,
 all of the tables created by migrations,
 the migrate command is what creates tables,
 the make migration actually creates migrations,
 what's your Python code.
 So if you're going to start fresh,
 you got to remove the DBSQLite file,
 that's got rid of all your users, all your super users,
 any data you've put in, it's gone,
 and then you have to wake it back up
 with a bunch of empty tables with the manage.py migrate,
 and you'll see all those things,
 lots of lines come out at that point, I didn't include them,
 and then you're going to have to create
 your super users again.
 So just if you wipe your database,
 you got to recreate your super users.
 Once you have a super user, the rest of the users
 are put in using the admin interface,
 you just go in, and among all the other models
 that you might have in your application,
 the groups and the users are just models,
 they're models that happen to be built into Django,
 and you don't have any responsibility for building them.
 And so, like I said, the groups and permissions is useful,
 and you can read up on that,
 and maybe your application needs to use those,
 but for me, I pretty much just make users and call it good.
 Later, we're going to learn how to use social login,
 so we'll use GitHub to log people in,
 so you don't have to create any users
 other than your admin user, but in the short term,
 we're just going to use what are called local users,
 which are stuck in a database, kept in the database,
 and easy to create, easy to maintain,
 but you tend to have to manually maintain them a little bit.
 So next, we're going to look at,
 now that you've got a user,
 how do we, in our application code, log in and log out users.
 (upbeat music)
