 So, now we're gonna take a look at what we do with Django
 to handle logging users into and out of our application.
 So, just, we talked about sessions recently,
 and making a session is not the same as being logged in.
 Logging in actually changes data in the session.
 Logging in, in general, the most basic way of logging in,
 depends on the existence of a session,
 and logging in is putting data into the session
 about the current user and their name and their email,
 and then logging out is removing it.
 In the session, you could have multiple users
 log in with one user, log out.
 Log in with a different user, log out.
 If you're just in the same browser,
 you're gonna end up with the same session,
 just associated with different users.
 So, remember, sessions and login are not the same thing.
 Just like cookies and sessions are not the same thing,
 sessions and login are not the same thing.
 But they all build on each other.
 Sessions build on cookies, and login builds on sessions.
 So, to make this all work,
 you have to add to your installed apps,
 all the Django support for all this login and log out stuff.
 Now, if you automatically built your project
 and you've got a settings.py
 that they're gonna just put this in automatically.
 So, this is just so you know when you're looking at it,
 where it is that all this magic functionality comes from.
 It comes from this installed apps.
 Also, for the login and log out,
 you're gonna have to add a path to your project-wide.
 So, dj4esamples, dj4esamples, urls.py.
 This is not in any of your applications.
 This is in your Django project.
 And you add a path, and there's a bunch of urls,
 and that gets all registered,
 and a whole bunch of wonderful magic happens at that point.
 And so, that's how these urls are activated
 in your Django project.
 So, the applications.
 So, the way we get the urls to the login and log out features
 is we use the reverse.
 We've been using reverse all along.
 Reverse is the way we look up for a particular view.
 And in some urls.py, matter of fact,
 in that Django contrib auth urls,
 in that, there is a name equals.
 And so, there's a view in there that they've got
 that we didn't write, and it has a name equals,
 and it has name equals login and a name equals logout.
 And so, we can do a reverse lookup
 like we would have any of our views that we might have.
 Say, what is, give me the url in this Django project
 for the view named login or the view named logout.
 And it's pretty simple.
 You could even probably hardcode these,
 but maybe the route isn't exactly a count slash, right?
 And so, maybe you call them something else.
 And so, that's why we use the reverse
 to look these things up.
 And so, that's just a convenient way of doing it.
 Now, one of the things about logging in
 is sometimes you have an application
 and there's like a login button,
 but sometimes you just have pages
 that are protected by login.
 And then, when you go to a page,
 it says, oh wait, you gotta log in first.
 And then, after you log in,
 you'll notice it typically just takes you
 right back to the page that you want it to see.
 So, you might bookmark a page when you're logged in
 and then you log out and then you click
 on that bookmark page,
 but that requires that you be logged in.
 So, you're gonna go to the page,
 and then when you're done logging in,
 you wanna come right back to that page.
 And so, that's using redirecting,
 but it's redirecting after login is successful
 or after logout is successful.
 Logouts are almost always successful.
 And so, there's a parameter that we can add,
 a gap parameter that we can add,
 and it's the next equals,
 and what we do is we give it a path.
 And so, here's a little bit of code
 that we're gonna play with in my sample codes
 under the AuthZ application.
 And so, I got a bunch of views
 and I'm gonna give 'em some names
 so that we can play with them.
 So, these are just the urls.py.
 So, if you take a look in this main.html template,
 you see a whole bunch of things.
 You see this next feature in action.
 So, here's a couple things we can do.
 So, there is this user object
 that in a sense is passed in.
 You don't have to do anything to pass it in.
 There's this user object that sits there
 in your template context that's automatically,
 we'll talk later about how you can sort of inject
 into every template certain little miniature,
 certain little things that you gotta inject.
 But, the system injects this user.
 There is an attribute called isAuthenticated,
 which is true or false,
 to say whether you're not logged in or are logged in.
 And so, if we see it, we say,
 oh, what's their person's full name?
 User.email, user.id.
 User.id is the primary key.
 We might actually have a, later we'll have a foreign key
 that goes into the user table,
 and we need to know what the primary key
 of the current user is so we can populate our foreign key
 so when we like have a row and it's owned by such and so,
 we're gonna actually put a foreign key into a table
 that we didn't even create.
 But, the thing I'm talking about now is you can get a URL,
 that URL tag, that's looking up the name of a view.
 Logout is the name of a view.
 Login is the name of a view.
 And then we have this question mark next equals.
 That's the parameter to say,
 when you're all done with that login or logout,
 go back to this particular URL, okay?
 And so,
 and so that says, go to the URL
 that's in the Authzy application, the view named open.
 And so, that's one way of doing it.
 Another way, let's say here in login,
 we're gonna get the login URL
 and send ourselves back to the request path.
 Request is another one of these things
 that's dropped in automatically for us.
 That is the current URL of the view we're at.
 So, in a sense, this is a contraction that says,
 go ahead and go to login,
 and when you're back, come right back here.
 So, login will login and then redirect back to this page
 that we're on, whatever the page is.
 'Cause this is gonna be, this little main.html
 is used in a couple of my different views.
 So, request.path is like, come back here.
 So, that's a good pattern to know,
 to just say, login and come back to this current path
 when you're all done.
 And so, here's just a bunch of connections to this thing.
 And we have, here's just all my links.
 And I have a couple of things.
 I have some no login required pages just to play around.
 And then I have one that's protected by hand in Python.
 And then one's required by a LoginRequiredMixin.
 And then I sort of dump all that data,
 and I think I showed you that one already.
 So, here is one of them, right?
 I showed that.
 That's what this all looks like.
 You can see that these links have the next in there.
 You can, this is how it turns out to be.
 You get accounts login.
 Oops, come back, come back.
 You go to accounts login, next=authzopen.
 And that's basically, I'm in this file right now.
 I'm in that URL.
 And that says, go ahead and log me in,
 and then come back to this URL, to the authzopen.
 Here's an example of the logout URL
 with a next setup in it.
 And so, up next, we're gonna talk about
 not just how to get the users to go to the login page,
 but how to configure the login page.
 (upbeat music)
