 -Hello, and welcome to our lecture on dynamic web content.
 It may seem kind of weird to be talking about building web
 applications, and when we start out
 talking about building web applications,
 that we're going to talk about protocols and stuff.
 But in a way, when you are building a web application,
 if you don't understand the protocol,
 and you just sort of say, I changed
 this little bit of code, and I hit refresh,
 and some magic happened, you really
 are cheating yourself in terms of becoming
 a really good web application developer.
 Because ultimately, these protocols
 are what enable web applications.
 And as you go forward and use frameworks,
 you don't need to know all these things in detail.
 But when you debug your applications, you absolutely do.
 And I don't know if you've had your Firefox console
 or looked at things and watched.
 There's so much complexity going on.
 And when you're using a web application,
 hopefully everything works, and that complexity is hidden from you.
 So if you have some interest in this
 and want to go even lower to sort of more of the network
 protocols, not just the HTTP protocols,
 I've written a free book on networking called Introduction
 to Networking-- How the Internet Works that you are welcome.
 You can buy a print if you want, but it's also completely free,
 like every book that I write these days.
 And so if we take a look at what we're
 going to really be talking about in this lecture
 and in this web application course,
 is the technologies, the different technologies
 that are used to, in effect, produce a web page, right?
 So we have a web page over here.
 You go to URL, dub, dub, dub, data,
 I mean, data.pr4e.org/page1.htm.
 And here comes a page.
 And this is like a super simple page.
 But there are so many technologies,
 like how browsers work with JavaScript and jQuery and CSS
 and eventually Vue and things like that.
 That's a whole set of front-end technologies.
 And then there's sort of back-end technologies,
 like Django or Flask and databases.
 And we're going to learn-- my focus in this class
 is less about how to make it all look beautiful,
 although that's important, and more about how
 to deal with the back-end.
 So what we're going to see is these technologies that
 define the look and feel and the interactivity
 of your web pages, but also then how data and HTML, CSS,
 and JavaScript are served up by the remote server.
 And so the internet here is in the middle.
 The browser is sitting on your laptop or your phone
 or whatever, and it has all these technologies built
 into it.
 It makes requests.
 And then the server comes back with responses.
 And so the simplest version of this protocol
 is that you click on a tag.
 And when you click on that tag, you get a new web page.
 Now, if you watch your debug console,
 you will see that sometimes it's 120 different request response
 cycles used to construct the page.
 But in a sense, they're all the same.
 Now, as we move to things like HTTP/2,
 there are ways to pull down multiple documents
 in a single connection.
 But we'll stick with the old HTTP/1
 way of thinking about it.
 In the simplest form, the browser
 asks for a document and then retrieves the document
 and then shows the document.
 And that is the basic request response cycle.
 So if you look at how this works,
 that browser is an application running
 inside your computer on your laptop or your phone.
 That is a piece of code.
 And in that, it's got a connection
 to the screen or the keyboard or the mouse or whatever.
 And it's watching for events, meaning
 that you're going to go and you're going to click somewhere.
 And then this application is going
 to respond to the events.
 So on a web page, in the simplest case,
 you got stuff that you can click on and stuff that you can't.
 And you go find your way through whatever
 to click on part of that web page.
 And that click is intercepted by the application,
 whether it's Chrome or Firefox or Safari running
 on your piece of equipment.
 And then that application then opens
 what's called a network socket, a socket across the network
 to a web server and sends a request.
 And that request, as we'll see in a bit,
 is a specially formatted request.
 It has a get command.
 And then it has the URL that it wants to get from the web server.
 And then the web server does a bunch of work inside itself,
 a bunch of work inside itself, maybe reading disk spiles
 and running the programs, generating
 what it is that you want.
 And then it sends the response back
 on that same socket connection.
 So there's like this socket connection
 through which all of this stuff is viewed.
 And so the HTML is kind of the basic thing that comes back.
 As we go further, we'll see that it's not just HTML that comes
 back, but other things as well come back.
 And so when the browser receives that HTML, then it says,
 oh, I know what HTML is.
 I've got this header one tag.
 Here, let me change the color of this thing
 so you can see that.
 See it a little better.
 Yellow is way better.
 OK, so when the browser receives this page,
 it sort of sees it.
 And it looks at it.
 And then it looks at all the HTML.
 And so part of this course is to understand the syntax of HTML.
 That itself is how to build good HTML and CSS
 and how to make it look beautiful.
 But ultimately, something in that HTML plus its CSS
 plus its JavaScript leads to a visual display of the page.
 And then that's the thing you see.
 And so this is the request response.
 Cycle.
 So up next, we're going to talk about what these network
 sockets are or the things that fundamentally
 underlie this request response cycle.
