 Hypertext Transfer Protocol is the protocol
 that browsers use to talk to servers.
 Now we've used it for all kinds of other things
 because it turns out that it's a super simple
 and super elegant protocol.
 Now this goes to a long time ago.
 This protocol was invented in 1990,
 which is like going on 30 years ago.
 Yeah, going on 30 years ago now or more.
 And there were many protocols.
 You would have one piece of software
 and there was server software and client software.
 You had to match them up and then you'd talk
 to the right port with this server software.
 And one of the inventions of Tim Berners-Lee
 and Robert Caillou at CERN was that we came up
 with this notion of instead of lots of pieces of software,
 we would have one piece of software called the web browser
 and it would be multi-protocol.
 And so we have this thing called the URL
 or Uniform Resource Locator.
 And we just sling these around, we just use them.
 But these things, this was itself an amazing innovation
 in 1990 'cause in the old days it'd be like,
 use this piece of software and talk to this address.
 So the URL captured three really important,
 very separate things.
 The first thing it did is it allowed for multiple protocols.
 Now the one that you mostly have seen is HTTP or HTTPS,
 that's a protocol, FTP colon or mail to colon
 might be the other ones that you've seen.
 And then a host and then a document.
 And that host is a domain name,
 which is a nice symbolic way to get a server address.
 And that eventually resolves to an IP address
 like 141.206.14.22 or something.
 And then the document within that server
 and that /page1.htm is the document in the server.
 And I'm just saying before 1990,
 there were many protocols and we did many things.
 But after 1990, this one protocol, HTTP,
 found its way into so many awesome solutions
 that it's by far, other than email,
 the dominant protocol that we use on the internet.
 Like I said, it was invented at CERN
 by Tim Berners-Lee and Robert Caillou
 to retrieve documents and images.
 And as soon as they built it,
 because it was all the other protocols that came,
 most of the other protocols were kind of complex
 because we're computer scientists
 and we make complex things.
 And we love complex things.
 And we're very, very good at complex things.
 But this was, when the web was being built,
 Tim and Robert were not like,
 we're gonna make the greatest thing ever.
 We're just gonna make a simple thing.
 So they made a simple thing,
 but it turned out to be the greatest thing ever
 because different engineers would be like,
 oh wow, I can use that a little different way.
 And the grounding of it was super simple.
 And the basic concept was you connect to a server,
 you figure out where it is,
 you send a single command with a bit of extra data,
 and then you get back something, a document.
 It could be an image, it could be data, it could be HTML.
 And it was really amazing, right?
 And so the sockets, the underlying sockets
 are the things that make the phone call.
 HTTP is what we do once this phone call has been established.
 So one of the things that made the internet so successful
 starting in the 1960s was a radical openness,
 a very, we're all around the same campfire feeling,
 very friendly, respectful, that still allowed criticism.
 There wasn't like one super genius that designed this
 or one company that designed this.
 This was a collaboration.
 And the collaboration was around a set of open standards
 and meetings to help build these standards.
 And they were called RFCs.
 They were called Request for Comments.
 And there was a group that built these
 called the Internet Engineering Task Force, the IETF.
 And the Request for Comments is a fun notion.
 We're looking here at a September 1981 document,
 which is 40 years old about now,
 and it's called Request for Comments.
 And the idea is as engineers, we might have a design
 that everyone thinks is the greatest thing ever,
 but we should always question.
 No design is perfect, no design is beyond question,
 no design is beyond commentary.
 And so even when they're 40 years old and used worldwide,
 and dang amazing, we still say
 there is room for improvement.
 And so this talks about, I think this one is IP,
 and there's an IPv6.
 There's another one, if you look for this RFC
 that we're looking at here, there'd be IPv6,
 and you'd start reading it.
 And it's pretty dense reading, but as an engineer,
 it gives you all the details to build a router
 or build a piece of software or build whatever.
 And these are 100% public documents.
 And the idea was is that no company,
 because literally the companies that were around in 1960,
 if they had said Burroughs or Sperry owns the internet
 or digital equipment owns the internet,
 they're all out of business
 because they didn't make good choices,
 but the market was able to make good choices.
 And because the commons were these open standards
 and open specifications, new companies like Sun Microsystems
 and new operating systems like Linux could come in,
 and even Windows could come in
 and participate as full participants
 'cause they just read these specs
 and all of a sudden they're interoperating
 with everybody else.
 This is fundamental and foundational
 to how the internet works.
 And I'm not saying you're supposed to go read them,
 but it's just fascinating to understand
 that the entire technological infrastructure
 upon which the internet is built is free,
 license free, royalty free,
 and you could build a brand new gadget
 and you could hook it to the internet
 by reading these specifications.
 You don't have to pay a developer's license or nothing.
 It's, dang, it's cool.
 Sorry, I'm just a little bit too excited about that.
 So let's take a look at one of these in particular.
 Now this is probably supplanted,
 but we'll look at RFC 2616.
 They go up in numbers.
 And so this is HTTP,
 Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
 And if you wanted to build a web browser or a web server,
 you could read this document.
 Go ahead, read the document.
 And if you read down far enough, you'll say,
 "Oh, this is how you make a request."
 Blah, blah, blah, it's got a header
 and it's got like a carriage return line feed
 and then a message body,
 and you gotta do this and this is what it looks like.
 And this is how it works, right?
 And so at some point you're deep in this document
 and you're finding out in this page right here
 of this document how your browser is supposed to format it.
 And this tells both the client and the server
 what the rules of the protocol are.
 Now, it's a lot easier to just for me to tell you.
 So you connect to the server on a socket,
 usually port 80 or port 443.
 And then the client is supposed to make the first sound.
 It makes first request.
 It sends a line for the carriage return line feed at the end
 that has the characters, there are other ones,
 but get get space, a URL space, and then a protocol.
 And right now I'm using this HTTP 1.0
 because I can do it by hand, right?
 And so you ask for a document
 and then you can optionally send some header information,
 things like what language this browser,
 person that this browser prefers,
 what are the capabilities of this browser,
 what version browser we have.
 So there's a series of things you say, give me this document
 and here's something about the browser
 that's requesting the document,
 including information like cookies that are being said.
 Now, so in case you wanna know who is doing this request
 because you've logged somebody in and set a cookie
 to indicate that they're logged in,
 that's all sent on this get request.
 What will not send the headers,
 there's actually incoming headers and then outgoing headers.
 We'll see these when we start looking at
 Firefox's debugging console.
 And so this is an entire interaction
 that you can do on your laptop.
 Now, I'm not gonna do it for you,
 but I would note that the program Telnet that this uses
 has been removed from most computers, it makes me sad.
 They think of it as a security hole
 'cause it doesn't use encrypted connections,
 like port 80 is not an encrypted connection.
 But ultimately, you can install,
 go search on your favorite search engine
 and find out how to install Telnet.
 But if you get in a command line,
 whether it's a Windows command line
 or a Mac command line or a Linux command line,
 and you get Telnet properly installed,
 you can type the following command,
 telnet datapr4e.org 80 and then hit enter.
 And at that point,
 so Telnet originally was used to log into computers,
 but if the server we're talking to
 and the protocol that we're talking to is simple enough,
 and in this case, HTTP/1 is simple enough
 for us to be able to do this,
 we're actually talking to the server
 'cause I remember I said that these are applications,
 they're not, your browser is not talking to files,
 your browser is talking to an application on a server
 and the server might give you back a file.
 So it's really talking to a piece of software
 and we'll see this in more detail in the next section.
 And so what'll happen is because the HTTP protocol
 requires that the client speak first, we have to type.
 Now, if you can get this working and type wrong things
 and type a couple of enters, new lines,
 you will see that you're talking to a piece of software
 and it will say, you have violated my protocol.
 You're not talking to a thing that has any online help
 or user interface or anything like that.
 You're talking to a server and your job
 is to request some data using the proper format
 because you read the specifications
 about the proper format, right?
 So in this particular one, we just,
 it's easier to cut and paste this
 'cause some of these servers, if you don't type fast enough,
 they'll be like, you're not a software,
 you're a human, quit playing with me.
 Like you talk to Facebook or something
 and you can talk to Facebook
 and see what happens on port 80
 and it will time you out really fast.
 So it's good to have a cut and paste buffer
 so you paste this get command in.
 And the other thing that's important
 is you gotta put an extra blank line
 and this extra blank line is to indicate
 that you're not gonna send any of those headers.
 If we were going to send things
 like what language we would prefer
 or what formats we would prefer as a browser,
 the browsers has certain languages
 and other configurations and login information
 and that can get sent up to the web server
 along with the request for the document.
 And we would be able to type them in here.
 But we're not gonna do that in this very simple,
 we're just gonna say enter, which means no more headers.
 If you were putting in headers,
 you type header, header, header, header
 and then enter on a blank line
 and then the server would know that our request was finished.
 But we can just ask for a page
 and then what the server does
 is it sends us back two pieces of information.
 First it sends us headers.
 The first header is HTTP 1.1 200 okay,
 that's actually a status line.
 Now you'd have to go read the documentation
 on how, what that works.
 But for example, 200 means that you got a document.
 Another one that you might've seen is 404.
 It might say 404 not found.
 So if you go to a webpage and it doesn't exist,
 something will say 404 in your browser usually
 unless it says here's a search box, go find it.
 But you can, there's a status and so you might,
 the thing that you're typing,
 page1.htm may or may not be on this server.
 If it is, then you'll get a 200 okay and the data
 or you'll get a 404 not found.
 And then we get some response data, some header response.
 And this header response looks pretty much
 like the same format of the data we would have sent
 into the browser if we were sending things
 like that in there.
 Here it's what the date is, what the server we're using,
 last modified and one of the important things
 is what kind of content are you about to see.
 Content type in this case is tech/html
 which means the thing coming next.
 And then there's a blank line and the blank line
 is our indication as we're reading this data
 that we've finished the header which is really metadata
 about the page we're retrieving and the actual page itself.
 And so the rest of this page is the actual data
 and we know the format of it
 because we were told before the page starts.
 This could be image/png, this could be XML,
 the application/xml and it could be JSON,
 it could be like anything and then the browser
 is supposed to, and if this was an image,
 it would be like garble, garble, garble,
 garble, garble, garble, right?
 It would be all garbled stuff that we can't really see
 but the browser knows what a png or jpeg looks like
 and it shows it to you and it basically uses this tech/html
 to tell you what's going on.
 And so this then, your browser has read all this information,
 it has both the metadata and the data
 about the retrieved page and then its job is to sort of
 produce a pretty rendered version of the page
 and show it to you.
 And that is the request recycle.
 Again, you don't have to do this,
 you can just sort of believe that it's done here
 but if you want to install Telnet on your system,
 it's not a bad thing to install Telnet,
 it's kind of a classic fun thing.
 It's far less useful than it was in the early days
 'cause we used to use Telnet to test everything,
 now we've got like browser developer consoles
 that are way easier than Telnet.
 But it's kind of a cool thing,
 feel free to do this and you'll be like,
 I know what's really going on.
 And so I'm a big fan of using the console,
 of using the terminal, of using text-based interfaces,
 I think they're actually way more accessible,
 I think it's awesome.
 And in a way, all these fancy graphical user interfaces
 distract us from the simplicity of what's going on
 inside of computers 'cause you think,
 well, where's the button?
 And the answer is, oh, there's probably some command
 inside this computer that does what the button does.
 So I have a former student of mine
 who actually wrote the scene
 and I think maybe it was Matrix 2,
 I think this was Matrix 2, yeah, Matrix Reloaded.
 And this scene where Trinity is breaking into the power grid
 and she is using the console.
 And it turned out that the way this scene was written
 is it was written exactly as a hacker,
 whether that's a hacker with bad intent or good intent,
 'cause there are hackers with good intent
 who are trying to break into your system
 so they can tell you for you pay them
 to break into your system,
 so that they can tell you your vulnerabilities.
 But you can take a look at the analysis of this little scene
 and this sort of is just one of the cool things
 about me teaching people about how to use the command line
 and increasingly me teaching people
 about how to use Linux.
 I really think that it's okay to know
 your Mac and Windows command line,
 but really increasingly the world and the server world
 and we're starting to work on web servers in this class
 and you might as well start learning some Linux
 'cause that's an important skill,
 just writing some Java code or Ruby code or Django code,
 that's a skill, but knowing how to start the server,
 debug your application, find log files, et cetera,
 in the command line is really important
 in real production systems
 'cause we're gonna play in some simplified environments
 to make it a little easier,
 but those simplified environments go away
 once you go into real production in a real job
 and so I'm really into teaching you Linux command line,
 et cetera, et cetera.
 So up next, we're going to show you in Python,
 in effect, as few lines as I can possibly show you,
 how a browser works, how a browser sends the HTTP protocol,
 how a server reacts to the HTTP protocol
 and returns documents, so that's what's coming up next.
 (upbeat music)
