 So we build a browser in Python.
 It's time to build a web server in Python.
 So remember that what we've got here is we've got,
 you know, the browser is an application,
 and we've made this a Python application now
 that sends this GET request.
 So we have effectively, like I said,
 built the world's simplest browser.
 And that sends a GET request, the server does something,
 and then it sends the response back.
 And now we're going to kind of change this, right?
 We're going to assume the browser exists,
 and it's like, OK, because we're going to be the server folks,
 right?
 So now we're going to look in greater detail
 at what goes on in the server.
 And so here is a very, very simple web server.
 It's a few more lines than the simplest web browser,
 because we have to put a little bit of error checking in with some tries
 and accepts, OK?
 So let's walk through what this code does, OK?
 Let me change the color again to black.
 If you're from Microsoft and you can tell them
 to make a key to change the color on the Scribbler,
 I'd greatly appreciate it.
 Oh, and then I went down a page too.
 OK, so we're going to pull in some more stuff from the socket.
 We're going to pull in some stuff from the socket right here.
 And so we're going to make a function called
 create server that we're going to call right down here.
 And it's going to print out how you're supposed to access it
 and then start the server.
 Now, the whole idea of the server
 is the server is woke up to wait for incoming connections.
 So the server already exists.
 So when you start talking to a web server,
 that server is in that computer already.
 The server software is already running,
 registering its interest in incoming requests.
 So that's what we do.
 So when this Python program starts,
 it's going to sit there and wait in an infinite loop
 for incoming requests.
 So the first thing we do is we're going to make a socket.
 This looks very much like the time we made.
 It's an endpoint.
 It's not actually making the phone call.
 Remember I said this socket call is making the phone.
 So we're saying we're going to make a phone.
 And it's up to us later to decide
 if we're going to make a phone call or receive phone calls.
 And then this next thing is like to connect,
 except this is I am willing on port 90
 to receive the phone calls.
 Now, it turns out there's only one program on port 90
 that can receive phone calls.
 So this might blow up.
 You might try to do this.
 I mean, port 9,000.
 And if you run this twice and you can do it
 in two windows on your computer,
 the second one will blow up and say you can't have port 9,000
 because another piece of software has it.
 But as long as there's only one running, away you go.
 And that's part of this whole try except thing
 because if you run this twice,
 it's going to blow up the second time
 because you cannot receive phone calls on this server
 on port 9,000 with two applications.
 One application gets the phone calls.
 That's what socket listen says.
 The five on there says, dear operating system,
 if I'm busy handling one phone call,
 you can hold on to four more and queue them
 and then I'll come back and get it for you.
 And that you're asking the operating system
 to queue incoming calls.
 Don't just say you're busy, shut down.
 If you didn't say this, listen five,
 if you were busy writing the data for phone call one
 and phone call two came in
 and you weren't ready for it right that instant,
 it would just deny the phone call.
 So that's what listen says is,
 dear operating system, hold those temporarily,
 I'll get back to you, which is how it works.
 And then what happens is we go into this except.
 Now this except is I'm at the phone,
 I've registered what my number is and what my extension is
 and I'm ready to pick the phone up.
 Let me know.
 So this except is blocking.
 It stops and it just sits there
 and it can sit there forever.
 You know, just literally forever.
 If nobody calls it, nothing happens.
 The next line never runs until you blow it up
 or the server goes down.
 So that's except is a blocking.
 And the reason we do this except,
 well, we have to establish the phone call first, right?
 So then this next line runs
 only when a phone call is received.
 So that means that we, on the browser side,
 we already connected, you know, we made the phone call.
 Now we haven't sent any data yet, right?
 And so this is just now at this point,
 somewhere out there, there's a piece of client software
 that has done a socket dot connect
 and we have done an except
 and our except has succeeded in the server.
 The connect has succeeded and we are ready to talk.
 So the phone call has been made.
 Now the question is, who's gonna say hello?
 And this is where the HTTP protocol solves our problem.
 The server knows that the client must speak first.
 So it just does a receive.
 Now you'll notice the receive and the send
 are the same function calls
 because it's a two-way thing.
 Whatever the browser is sending, the server is receiving
 and whatever the server sends, the browser receives
 and they can do it simultaneously
 if they can figure it out.
 But usually you kind of like say, it's your turn to listen
 and my turn to send and then I'll listen.
 And usually they kind of go back and forth.
 In this, there's only one step.
 The server listens, gets the get request,
 sends the data back.
 And so then we're going to read some data
 and we're gonna get 5,000 characters.
 We're gonna get the whole thing.
 Remember it's one line, it has a get request in it.
 It has the optional parameters in it.
 And so we're gonna split it.
 Now again, we've received it as UTF-8.
 We've got to decode it for UTF-16.
 I mean, not UTF-16, Unicode inside of Python.
 And then we split it based on new lines
 'cause the get request is on one line
 and header, header, header, header, header, header
 and then the blank line
 to tell us that we're into the headers.
 And we're only gonna take in this,
 we're just gonna look at that first line.
 We're not gonna do anything with it.
 Most servers actually like look at the line
 to figure out what document to send.
 It's a very simple server.
 It sends the same document no matter what the URL is.
 All we do with the URL is we print it out
 to prove that we got it.
 And then we construct a response.
 And in this response, again, go back to RFC 2616
 and it will tell you what this response
 is supposed to look like.
 It sends back a 200 okay.
 Remember this is all the stuff we saw.
 Probably I cut and pasted it from a working thing.
 We tell it that we're sending it back
 in content type text HTML, the character set UTF-8.
 Remember I was telling you that.
 A blank line and then some HTML.
 HTML body, hello world body.
 And I'm throwing in these /r/n's
 which is the network's version of new lines.
 And then you will notice that I encode it before I send it
 because it's Unicode inside of Python
 and it needs to be sent as UTF-8
 because the phone, when you're in a socket,
 the thing that's going across the socket
 almost always is supposed to be UTF-8.
 So we encode it.
 And then because the protocol says so,
 as soon as we send the data, we close the connection.
 Now remember that the client had to close the connection too.
 So we close it, it's half closed
 and then the client gets all of its data,
 gets the indication that it closed,
 knows it's finished all the data
 and then the client shuts its side down.
 And so there are two hangups.
 It's kind of like a phone call.
 The person hangs up and then click you hang up.
 Now you can't really keep talking
 but you do want to have both sides hang up
 and that shutdown is what's going on.
 And then the rest of this is all try-except
 for various things.
 So we clean up our socket.
 So we don't have to restart our server
 when our software blows up
 and so the rest of it's pretty simple.
 And then, so this while one,
 the first browser will talk
 and then it'll send some data
 and then it'll go back and wait for the next phone call.
 And that's what's going on.
 The next phone call comes in,
 it sees a get request, it sends the data back
 then goes and waits for another phone call.
 So this is an infinite loop
 that sits and waits for incoming phone calls
 and it answers the same thing.
 So it's like you call this phone number
 and it goes, and you go, I would like a pizza.
 And it says, hello world, and then click
 and then you call it up and say, I would like a car.
 And it says, hello world, click.
 And then you say, I would like to register for this class.
 And it says, hello world, click.
 So this is not a very flexible server.
 You will build far more flexible servers
 but it's the one I could build
 and fit on a single page in a slide deck.
 So to run this, if you download this code
 and it's tiny bit of code and you run it,
 so you go somewhere, maybe your laptop,
 maybe Python anywhere, I don't know if it works on Python,
 probably doesn't work on Python anywhere
 'cause you can't actually talk to ports.
 But let's just run this on your laptop
 and you start the server up somewhere,
 get ahold of my sample code or download it from here,
 server.py and it's telling you,
 this is just output from the server
 and this is the moment at which it's waiting, right?
 It's waiting.
 The server could wait for hours at this point.
 But I just give you this in a print statement
 so you can copy that and put it into your browser.
 So you paste localhost 9000 into your browser
 and then the server is printing that it got a get request
 for the slash document from this browser.
 That's what the browser send.
 I mean, we're talking from Firefox browser
 to the little web server that we just built.
 Now there's another, a second get request
 that you don't even know 'cause you didn't ask for it
 and that's because the browser is built in
 to ask for a URL called favicon.ico
 so that it can make an icon
 and that icon ends up in the tab
 or wherever in your browser
 and so that's like an icon for the website.
 So you didn't ask the browser to do this
 but it's a thing browsers do
 and you'll see when you're looking at your debug logs
 when you're building stuff that it's a Fabico.
 And so this happens like blink blink
 and now it's waiting again, right?
 And you can hit refresh
 or you can go start up a different browser
 and you would see these get requests.
 Every get request you're gonna see
 in your browser and your server.
 So it's working and it works really well
 and you're welcome to go ahead and play with it
 and try it all out.
 So now what we're gonna do is build a simple web client
 and that'll talk to our server.
 So the other web client we made talked to data.prfree.org.
 This one is gonna talk to yourself.
 So it almost looks identical, right?
 We're gonna make a phone.
 We're making a phone.
 We're gonna connect to local host 127.0.0.1
 is the IPv4 connection
 what's called loopback right to the same host.
 We're talking to port 9000
 because that's where we've got our web server running
 that little web server we just wrote.
 And then we're gonna send a get request
 a valid get request to this thing htp10
 and then two new lines
 and we're gonna encode it into UTF-8 before we send it.
 Then we send it and then we just have a loop
 that prints it all out.
 And then when the socket gets closed, we hit a break
 and then we close our end of the socket.
 So the server clicks the phone
 and then we know we're done with our data
 but we've already printed it out
 and then we hang up the phone on our end
 to kind of clean everything up
 all the way in between everything else.
 So this is a very simple web client.
 And so now you can run the web server, right?
 Just like we did before.
 And instead of talking in a browser, we run this client.
 And this client gets a header of HTTP/1.0/k,
 it's content type HTML.
 It gets a new line and then the body and we're done.
 Now, I mean, it's not a browser
 but it is a client that's talking HTTP.
 And so now you'll notice that this server
 sort of sits and waits for incoming calls.
 You could run this over and over on the client,
 run the client over and over again, right?
 And then you would see more requests
 but in general the server is destined
 to just sit and wait for hours potentially
 until a client connects to it.
 And then at some point, you'll just abort this server
 and then if you control C or blow this up somehow,
 this will fail, the client will fail
 and it will fail in this connect code.
 So if you wanna play with it,
 try to run this client without running the server
 and you'll see that the connect,
 which is the part of actually making the phone call,
 this will continue to work,
 which is make me a phone on my current computer
 and then connect is make a call to the remote computer,
 that will blow up.
 And then if you wanted to play with this,
 you could put some try and accepts around it,
 say remote computer is not responding on port 9000.
 That's if you blew up,
 you could put a try and accept around that.
 But I'm not doing it because it don't fit on my slides.
 So here is an even simpler web client that we can use.
 And again, you can get this code from my sample code.
 We don't talk to this, there's a higher level thing that,
 so the previous client talked to sockets
 so I could show you the low level,
 but because we spend so much time talking about to URLs,
 we then have a URL lib.
 So I'm just gonna use URL lib.
 I'm gonna, and this could be a local host
 or it could be whatever.
 I'm just gonna make a four line URL lib call.
 And so I just do a URL open of that same URL.
 Now we're operating at the HTTP level
 'cause URL, the concept of URL is not a socket concept,
 the concept of URL is HTTP concept.
 Then we just get an effect what looks like a file handle
 to us and we loop through it and print it all out.
 So we run our server
 and the server sort of says this and waits.
 And then we run our client, it basically hits our server
 and we can see in the server window,
 you gotta do these two things in two windows, right?
 You gotta do these things in two separate windows.
 So in the server window, it'll sit and wait
 and then in the client window, when it runs,
 you'll see the client will make the request to the server
 or blow up with the server not running.
 And the server will see the get request
 and then the data will come back to the client.
 So you sort of do this in two things
 and you can run the client over and over and over again
 and you'll see every time you run the client,
 the server sees it, responds and away you go.
 And again, our server always says hello world,
 no matter what, which is delightful and classic.
 It's a classic.
 So you actually can watch when you're running Django,
 there will be a way for you to see
 when you're running Django locally
 and you start the server up.
 This managed three don't, we'll do this later,
 managed pi.runserver and then you talk to it
 and you will see all the get requests.
 And so Django, when you run it locally,
 you can debug a lot of what's going on.
 So you can see like the favicon that it's asking for
 and that is five or six HTTP requests
 to produce that little Django webpage.
 And so that will be something that you will learn how to do.
 And so that sums up what we were doing in this.
 At the beginning, you look at it very simply,
 pretty soon you'll just be looking at the developer console
 and it'll all make sense to you.
 I want you to be able to know that you can dig
 as deep as you want to and understand
 all of these protocols that are going back and forth.
 Okay, cheers.
 (upbeat music)
