 So now I want to talk about a concept called virtual hosting.
 Like I said, this doesn't really affect you directly,
 but I want to sort of show you a little bit about how
 an organization like Python Anywhere
 can have a very small amount of resources
 and support a very large number of hosts.
 And this is the idea that they have one piece of hardware
 or a very few pieces of hardware in many different domains
 running on that system.
 And this also kind of helps you understand
 why you have to configure Python Anywhere the way
 you do to help them route the request not just to the server,
 but to your application within the server where
 your application is running.
 So if you recall with the request response cycle, HTTP,
 it makes a connection to a domain,
 and then it sends a GET request with the domain in the GET
 request.
 And so here we have a little sample.
 We say telnet data.pr4e.org.
 That's the host and port 80, which is to say,
 let's talk to the web server.
 And then we connect, and then we send the GET request.
 And the GET request has a couple of pieces, right?
 The GET request has the name of the document,
 including the server that it's going to, and then the protocol,
 and then a blank line.
 The key thing is they don't just say, get me any document.
 You actually tell it the host that you're looking for.
 And by looking at this, that's how the virtual hosting works.
 And so it says, oh, I'm one host really,
 but I can pretend to be many hosts
 and know which host I'm being asked for with that information.
 And so that's how the virtual hosting works.
 So when a GET request comes into a server,
 it can say, I have many virtual hosts inside myself,
 and I'll pick the right one.
 And so if we look at the browser's debugger console,
 we can see that it's asking and doing a GET request
 to a particular Python Anywhere URL with a particular domain
 name.
 And the domain name is part of the request,
 which is what makes the virtual hosting happen.
 And so this is where, in the web tab of Python Anywhere,
 you've got to give this thing about where are you at.
 And you have to say, within this server,
 I'm running at this home folder.
 And so that's your home directory, dangle projects,
 local library, your working directory,
 where it's supposed to go when it receives a request for you.
 And then it has this one configuration file.
 And you'll notice that that file doesn't belong,
 that www.mdntutorial_pythonanywhere.com_wgsi.
 The WGSI configuration file is not in your data space.
 So that's actually in the system.
 And that's the place where the system can look up
 where you're going.
 And then that file, again, if you read that file,
 you'll see it's telling where it's supposed to go
 in the overall system to start in a directory
 and load the configuration for a particular application.
 And up you go.
 And so this is kind of the picture of how it all works.
 You've got a browser out here.
 And the browser is making many requests
 to this server, which is one piece of physical hardware.
 And then there's a little piece of software.
 Often it's an open source software called NGINX.
 And it has a whole bunch of configuration files
 that you put in in their user interface.
 And it has little instances of Django,
 one for each of the domains in those systems.
 And so you're isolated from all the other ones,
 whether it's mdntutorial_pythonanywhere.com,
 dj4epythonanywhere.com, or just some other kind of thing.
 It doesn't even have to be Django.
 It can be just about anything.
 And so there are these configuration files that allow,
 and all this really accomplishes
 is reusing some of the server hardware
 so that you don't have to have a dedicated piece of hardware
 for every single piece of software.
 And then within that is what I showed you before,
 and that is how the request works in your settings file.
 But the goal of NGINX is getting it to your front door
 so that your application gets the requests
 that are destined for it.
 So this is both how these applications are combined
 into one server using virtual hosting,
 but also how applications work internally.
 And so I just wanted to give you a really short overview
 of how this all works.
 So that you can build the picture a little bit
 at a time over the next few weeks
 as you learn this material.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
