 - Hello, and welcome to this lecture on the structure
 of a Django application.
 It's a little early to be going through all the detail,
 and there'll be some things that we're not really
 going to understand until a little bit later in the course.
 But I wanted to sort of show you the lay of the land
 so that as we add features, you realize that there's
 sort of a method to the madness.
 And so, Django is a way of building web applications.
 Django has a pattern within itself that, you know,
 organizes folders in a certain way, and puts files
 in certain places, and we're gonna build these projects
 and applications, and you're like, why are these things
 organized the way they are?
 Well, it has to do with the fact that if you go
 from one Django project to another Django project,
 you can, you know, fit right in and understand
 how things are going to work.
 So, the important terminology that's, I don't know,
 a bit frustrating is there is projects and applications,
 and from, Django has this notion of, you have applications,
 and you might have a project, which is really basically
 a website, and then, you know, some applications,
 but if you had two projects, you could share
 applications between them.
 And so, it's one or more applications per project
 with the ability to potentially reuse application
 across multiple projects.
 And so, we're gonna work with my DJ4E samples,
 which I hope you have downloaded somewhere,
 at least so that you can look at the files,
 look at the folders, look at the names of the files,
 and look at the contents of the files.
 This will all make more sense when you get a little
 farther down the road.
 So, here is an LS statement, LS minus L,
 DJ4E samples, and hello.
 This is within the folder DJ4E samples.
 There are two basic folders.
 One is, in effect, the project wide settings,
 which is the same name as the folder that we're in.
 So, it's DJ4E samples slash DJ4E samples.
 And then, there is the first application, which is hello.
 And there's a couple things here,
 like the underscore underscore init dot py.
 You'll notice it's an empty file.
 It's just some bookkeeping that helps Python know
 that there are files that contain classes
 and objects in here.
 Settings dot py and URLs dot py and wgsi dot py
 is kind of like the traffic cop
 for this entire application that routes things
 coming into the right, this entire project
 that routes things to the right application.
 And then, within the application, we have some files.
 And you're really gonna learn a lot
 about object-oriented programming,
 because all these files contain objects.
 So, Django is a large piece of software,
 and you change its behavior by defining objects
 that accomplish things, and then,
 in effect, registering those objects.
 So, a common thing will be to take something like, you know,
 admin dot py or models dot py, create a data model,
 and then tell the admin user interface
 that you didn't write how to show your model,
 and so you write stuff in admin dot py
 to communicate into the admin user interface
 how your data model that Django currently knows nothing about
 is supposed to be shown, et cetera, et cetera.
 And so, there's a lot of files,
 and we will talk through these files.
 Now, this is an example of a request response.
 It's a web application.
 And so, what we'll talk about is,
 once a request makes it into the server,
 it's gonna do some work and then produce a response.
 But in that, we're gonna look at all of the work
 that goes back and forth.
 And there's effectively like a routing step
 where it picks what part of your application
 to run this route this request to.
 There is a view part, which is going to receive it
 and potentially store data.
 Some would call that the model.
 The storing of the data is certainly the model,
 but the receiving of the possibly new input data
 like you're gonna create a new thing,
 that would be the model.
 And then the view, at some point,
 you gotta finish it and send something back out.
 And that's the purpose of the view.
 We call this pattern for building web applications,
 model view controller.
 And it's not like you can't build applications any other way.
 It's just by saying, it's a terminology
 that I can say going forward, that's the model,
 that's the view, and that's a controller function.
 And you don't have to know it right now,
 but these are words that are, they're loaded
 and have valuable meaning to us to be able to do.
 So at some point in this picture on the left side,
 we have a browser.
 DOM stands for the document object model.
 And at some point, the person clicks somewhere
 in the current web page they're looking at.
 And the web browser intercepts that and says,
 oh, okay, I've got your click right here.
 The web browser intercepts it
 and then makes a socket connection across the internet,
 which we've seen before, and then does a get request.
 And that is what then goes into the server.
 And so the three functions are the routing,
 the views, and the models.
 And there is an overall configuration file,
 the settings.py, which is sort of how you just say,
 oh, here's my view files, read these view files,
 read these model files.
 So the settings.py kinda controls everything.
 But when a request first comes in, it consults urls.py,
 and then for the project, and then it will include urls.py
 from each of the applications.
 So once it's chosen what view to run,
 it looks at the URL, pulls out the pieces of the URL,
 and finds the views in views.py.
 That's a Python file that has the destinations
 for these incoming URLs.
 There's a file called forms.py, which we'll see later,
 that is used to make the forms aspect,
 the part that you fill in as pretty as possible.
 And then we take the resulting data
 that we're gonna send back and we merge that in
 through what's called a template.
 And then if there's any data that we need stored,
 we call the model and we store that in a database.
 And there's this file called model.py,
 which informs how we store data in the database.
 And then when that's all done,
 we read potentially new data from the database,
 merge that into a template,
 and then send a response back to the browser,
 and then that response is all shown to the end user.
 And so that really is the request into the server
 through a Django application,
 pulling data from various places,
 merging a template back in,
 and then sending a response back to the application.
 So up next, we're gonna talk about virtual hosting.
 Now, in general, you're not gonna have to worry about this.
 It just kind of explains how something like Python Anywhere
 is able to manage a whole lot of domains on a single system.
 (upbeat music)
