 - Hello and welcome to our lecture on owned rows in Django.
 So what do I mean by an owned row?
 Well up to now, every CRUD application that you've written,
 you got a table, or a model or two,
 maybe they're connected, but basically if you log in,
 you can edit every row, and so if you do a list,
 you see an update and delete button on every row.
 Real applications don't work that way.
 If you're building a classified ad system,
 some ads belong to you and some ads belong to other people,
 you can see them all, but you can't edit them all.
 So we have to decide when to put the edit and delete buttons up,
 and only do those for the owner, and we gotta make it
 so you can't sneak in and edit and delete other people's stuff,
 and so we have to protect these rows from being edited
 or deleted by anybody but the owner, but anybody can see them.
 And so that's why I call them owned rows.
 If there's a row that you own,
 you will see an edit or delete button.
 If there's a row you don't own, you'll see the row and the data,
 and you'll be able to read it and view it, and that's it.
 And so if we go back to how we were working
 in our CRUD application, we were making heavy uses
 of these generic views, the generic list view.
 And so when we're all said and done,
 after a whole bunch of, you know, machinations,
 you ended up with a very, very simple view.
 You ended up with a horse list view
 that extended generic list view.
 Generic list view is provided to us by Django.
 And the only thing we had to do was take this code,
 which is several thousand lines of code,
 and inform it as to which model we want it to be,
 and then we make another view, right?
 So we make the horse list view
 by extending generic list view and informing that list view
 that we wanna do this in the model with horses.
 And from that point on, all kinds of convention happens.
 And so we know things like,
 the variable will be named horse list.
 It'll be a list of objects that are retrieved from,
 a list of model objects that are retrieved
 from the database.
 And so we kinda know how that works.
 And it makes things really simple, not a lot of repetition.
 Every view kinda looks the same.
 You probably have done cats, dogs, autos,
 a couple of different things.
 And they all look very much the same.
 And if you get good at it, you should be able
 to make these changes very rapidly.
 So if we look at how this is working
 kinda from an object-oriented perspective,
 we are making a new class called gView.Views.HorseListView.
 And we are extending, our parent class
 is the generic list view.
 And we're sort of adding our own little special sauce
 by saying one class variable model equals horse.
 Okay, and so that's kinda what's going on here.
 Now, in this owner view,
 we're going to do something quite similar.
 And that is, when we're going to have an article,
 and this is all from the DJ Free Samples My Arts example,
 we're going to extend owner list view.
 Now, if we were, and soon we will look inside
 owner list view and we will see that owner list view
 is extending generic list view.
 And we're, this model equals article
 is informing owner list view.
 The difference is, this is our code.
 That belongs to us.
 And in the last part, we will show you everything
 that you have to do to build one of these things.
 And so we're taking the list view,
 which has almost everything we want,
 and we're going to add one feature to it.
 And then we're going to extend the list view
 and create a new view called owner list view.
 Or you might call it list view for owned rows.
 And at that point, you just, you're good.
 And this has, this class owner list view,
 which we'll see in a second,
 has everything you need to deal with rows that are owned.
 And for example, we're going to have a owner column.
 So every article is going to have an owner.
 And if that's equal to the current logged in user,
 then we're going to show these little edit and delete buttons.
 But if the article owner,
 the owner value inside the article object, or the model,
 if that owner is not equal to the current user,
 we don't show it.
 Now, not showing a link does not mean
 you've protected it from editing.
 We'll show you later how that protection from editing happens.
 But this is such a common problem
 that we want to just be able to, in a sense,
 say look, here's a list view.
 Here's a list view with this special owner column in it,
 and we want to maintain the owner column.
 We don't want to have to write hundreds of lines of code
 in every view that we want to have this owner column.
 So we just use object-oriented techniques to accomplish this.
 And so we're going to use inheritance.
 And we talked about it and we'll talk about it again.
 Inheritance is the idea that you have a class,
 you're going to make another class
 that inherits all of its, all that parent class,
 and then extends it, adds a little bit of stuff to it.
 And it's another form of don't repeat yourself.
 Do something once in a parent class.
 You make the parent class sometimes quite generic.
 Then you make a child class that extends the parent class.
 And then we use the child class.
 Or we could call them subclasses or child classes.
 There's a whole bunch of different terminology
 and it's all pretty much equivalent.
 Subclasses are more specialized versions of a class.
 They inherit attributes and methods
 from their parent classes and can introduce their own.
 Again, basic object-oriented programming.
 So up next we're going to talk a little bit
 about how it is that we can peek in
 to one of these generic views
 and add our own special sauce for it.
 (upbeat music)
