 - Hello, and welcome to my lecture on cookies and sessions.
 So taking a look at sort of how all this stuff works out,
 we're again in our application.
 So there's two distinct topics that we're going to cover,
 and it's really important to keep them clear.
 So there's cookies, which are a browser concept.
 And then there are sessions, which are a server concept.
 When we write Python code in likeourviews.py,
 we talk to the session.
 Cookies are essential to sessions.
 Cookies are used to look up which among the sessions
 that we're going to use.
 So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna first talk about
 really just the cookies.
 How cookies talk, how the servers talk to the cookies,
 and then separately we'll talk about sessions.
 So keep the two concepts the same.
 A lot of people tend to confuse the concept
 of sessions and cookies,
 'cause one of the most common use of cookies
 is to establish and maintain sessions.
 So the first thing about the web in general
 is that you have a web server,
 and when you're just developing,
 you think there's only one person,
 which is you, talking to the web server.
 But in reality, when a web server's in production,
 connected to the internet,
 there could be 1,000 connections
 to 1,000 different browsers.
 And it's essential that the server can figure out
 at any moment which browser it is talking to.
 We don't maintain a permanent connection to these browsers.
 That's one of the reasons that the internet scales
 as high as it does, right?
 But that's, so we still have to have some way
 of distinguishing when a request comes in from this server
 versus when it comes in from that server.
 And so what we wanna do is we want a way
 to basically put a little mark on each browser
 and say, oh, that's this browser.
 And so when you log in from this browser,
 I can know that it's you.
 So marking the browser is different from saying,
 I have browser 41, 42, 43, 44.
 And each browser ends up with a mark.
 In the early days, the web was pretty much
 a read-only medium.
 We didn't do a lot of logging in.
 We didn't do a lot of uploading.
 There were password mechanisms,
 but they were very, very clunky.
 And so all the browsers were pretty much reading
 the same information, and as long as you're not logging in
 and modifying stuff, it just doesn't matter.
 So quickly, in the early days of the web,
 the idea of a cookie was created,
 and that was a way for the server
 to store a little bit of data on each of the browsers.
 And they're just little pieces of data
 written by the servers, read by the servers,
 sent by the browsers, and read by the servers.
 Now, it has nothing to do with logging in.
 It has to do with writing a little mark on every browser
 and then getting that browser mark back every time we ask it.
 So often when a server gets a first request from a web page
 that doesn't have its little mark on it,
 it makes up a number and sends that cookie back.
 So it sets the cookie, there may be many interactions
 between the time you're starting to talk to a server
 and when you log in.
 But often the cookie is set immediately.
 But the key is, is that once I set that cookie,
 it's like storage for my server on your browser,
 and each of the servers, and that can be sort of
 temporary or permanent storage.
 So they're marked in the browser
 by the web address as they came from.
 It's a security thing.
 You're not allowed to read cookies from a page.
 If your page comes from a particular server,
 it can only read the cookies associated with that server
 and vice versa, so they're like a little stovepiped.
 Cookies have an expiration date.
 There is two kinds of expiration dates.
 There's sort of a by a certain time or a number of seconds,
 or there is stay logged in or keep this cookie
 until the browser is shut down.
 We call those session cookies,
 which is kind of weird 'cause we often use them.
 We often use session cookies for sessions,
 but we still gotta keep them cookies.
 So here's a bit of sample code.
 So one of the things you can do is you can go
 into your browser console and you find something
 like storage, and you can see for the website
 of the current page, the current website that you're on,
 that website's cookies are stored here.
 And so I'm looking at the cookies here,
 and I see there's only one cookie, the CFDUID.
 That's the server is using a proxy to help speed itself up.
 And so that cookie's not really part of our application.
 And so what happens is there is no cookie.
 It's not set.
 And so we go in and click on this.
 If you give a browser a cookie.
 And it's going to route to this particular view.
 And so in this, we're gonna do a print of request.cookies.
 So what happens is I mention that every time
 a web request comes in, all the cookies get sent in
 with that web request that are associated with that server.
 So we're gonna print them out.
 And they come in just like request.get, request.post,
 and request.cookies is Django's way
 of handing us all that information.
 And so in this case, I'm not actually going
 to send the response back in the return value.
 I'm actually gonna create the response.
 That's resphd response with a string.
 And then I'm gonna set some cookies.
 So cookies are part of the response.
 They're actually part of the headers of the response.
 And I'm gonna just set one cookie.
 They're my names.
 I set 'em, this application.
 Cookie name zap to 42.
 And then a cookie named SakaiCar with a value of 42.
 And I give it 1,000 seconds.
 So that's, one is a session cookie,
 and the other is a cookie with a fixed expiration date.
 Now this 1,000 seconds,
 you can go much longer than 1,000 seconds
 if you start looking at the cookies
 that you're talking to on the various things.
 These are year-long, multi-year cookies,
 et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 And so if you were to see the printout
 that is coming from that request.cookies,
 you would see that it's basically
 a dictionary of key value pairs.
 Now that's after the second response.
 So if we go and we click on the cookie
 and we start with no cookies whatsoever,
 if we start with no cookies whatsoever,
 we're gonna send this code out,
 and it's gonna send two cookies back.
 And so what you can see here is you can see,
 if you look closely on the response headers,
 two set cookie responses.
 So the response headers are like the content type,
 et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
 They're not the actual page.
 The actual page is C is for cookie and it's good enough
 for me, but basically when this response came back,
 the server said, hey, set this key value pair
 and this key value pair and have this second one expire,
 which is exactly what I did inside that code.
 And so now if we take a quick look
 and we take a look in our storage,
 what we're gonna see is that we now have two values.
 Sakai car is 42, Zap is also 42,
 Sakai car is going to expire a certain amount
 of time in the future and Zap is a session cookie
 'cause we gave it with no expiration,
 which means once I wanna close all the tabs
 in my browser and close the browser,
 then the browser will throw this away.
 The Sakai car will be persisted to disk or some other place
 so that if I close all my browsers and open browsers up
 and go back to this website, samplesdj4e.com,
 it'll start sending that cookie.
 So that's a permanent cookie with an expiration date on it.
 Now that's pretty short expiration,
 1,000 seconds is like, what, 20 minutes, I think,
 and so that's gonna go away.
 But a lot of these cookies last much longer.
 So that's after the set cookie comes back from the server,
 then we can take a look and we can see
 as we make another request, we're going to see
 that the browser is going to look up the cookies
 and we have this one here that's part
 of the hosting environment, but Zap equals 42 Sakai car.
 So now in goes a get request
 and as part of the request headers,
 it's telling us all the cookie values
 for samples.dj4e.com.
 And then when I look at my code and I say request.cookies,
 request.cookies contains the parsed versions
 of Zap 42 and Sakai car 42.
 So I'm gonna end up with a dictionary with two values in it
 and Zap and Sakai car.
 And so the way to think about this is
 when the browser first come in,
 first comes in to the server, it looks for the cookie.
 It might say, do I have this cookie already set?
 Now my application that I wrote is real simple.
 And then you are gonna send the cookie back
 and then the browser stores the cookie inside the browser
 and then from that point forward,
 every time it makes a request, that comes in
 and we can see this in the variable request.cookies inside it.
 So we really only have to set it once,
 although the code I wrote sets it every time,
 but it doesn't matter.
 Until it expires or until the browser closes,
 the job of the browser is to send that cookie back, okay?
 So remember what I said, I said we're gonna mark this
 each browser with a different number
 so we can know which browser is which.
 That's exactly what it is.
 Now it doesn't always set it to 42.
 Usually it chooses a large random number,
 but we'll get to that in a second.
 So up next, we're gonna like make some sense of this
 by adding the backend part of this,
 which is the sessions, which stores all the data
 from request to request.
 (upbeat music)
