 (upbeat jazz music)
 Hello, and welcome to Django for Everybody.
 Today we're gonna talk about using the shell.
 It's one of the early assignments in the class,
 and I just kinda wanna walk you through things.
 Now you might ask yourself,
 why are we using this old-fashioned command line interface?
 Everything that I do is pointing quick, clicky,
 or I just move my finger and things work.
 And the answer is yes, for end users,
 we try to make things as easy as possible,
 but there's always a server behind that kind of cool stuff
 that you're building.
 And that server, 99% of the time,
 doesn't have a clicky graphical user interface,
 it has a command line interface, a textual interface,
 where it gives you a prompt,
 you type some stuff and you hit enter,
 you type some more stuff and you hit enter.
 And Linux is by far the most popular server system
 on the planet.
 And so if you're anywhere near the server,
 it doesn't hurt to understand a little bit how this works.
 You don't have to be a wizard,
 but the whole idea of this assignment
 is to give you some sense of what you're dealing with
 and weird things that might happen
 while you're using this command line.
 So we're gonna use Python Anywhere as we do in the class,
 but the concept of the shell and the Linux user interface,
 that's universal across servers.
 Python Anywhere just gives you a free one.
 Otherwise, you'd get one from Amazon or Google
 or Windows Azure.
 So here you are, you're logged into Python Anywhere.
 You go into the consoles tab and you can start a new console.
 And the console, you can just run Python interactively
 if you want.
 You can run a MySQL shell that connects
 to your MySQL database, which we'll have later.
 I prefer to not use any of these things
 except the bash shell.
 The bash is just, there's variations
 in the Linux user interface.
 And bash is just one of them.
 And so you may not use bash.
 You may use the SH or something else,
 but they all kind of have common things
 with little tiny subtle differences.
 So I'm gonna start a bash shell.
 And it's gonna take a little bit here
 to go da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da,
 do its little thing here.
 And it's setting things up.
 Part of this is that there are hundreds of thousands
 of people using Python Anywhere
 and it has to build your own interface.
 Now, the dollar sign prompt is traditionally
 the prompt that says it's waiting for input.
 So I can type a command and then I can hit enter.
 And it says that is not a good command.
 There is a help, it's called man.
 Man LS that tells you, so that's the LS command,
 like what is in the LS command?
 And then it goes into a page.
 Now you'll notice that we're not scrolling here.
 It pauses at the bottom.
 And I'm gonna hit the Q key to get out of that.
 So man is kind of like your help.
 And man stands for manual.
 Back in the days when you had big books, right?
 You had these big books that were the manuals
 that you would reach up on your shelf and open it up.
 This is an online version of a great big book.
 So the first thing in this class in particular
 that you have to learn how to do,
 and there's a whole assignment to set up
 your Django environment with the right version of Python.
 And so I'm gonna just activate what's called
 a virtual environment that I've already got set up.
 The rest of these, many of these commands
 would work without that.
 But here on Python Anywhere, we tend to build that.
 And that's a separate assignment where you set that up.
 So I'm gonna do work on Django 4.
 Okay, now that means, and in the prompt you see changes
 to say you're working in a Python virtual environment
 named Django 4.
 The first thing you wanna do to verify
 that things are working well is check the version
 by typing python --version.
 And that tells you what version of Python.
 At this point, you should be using a relatively high version
 of Python, Python say 3.8 or later.
 And then a relatively recent Django version.
 And so this is my system and it's running
 Django version 4.0.17, I have it 4.0.7.
 So that's just a typing command.
 And you'll notice I'm hitting the enter key
 at the end of these things and then something happens.
 And so now I'm in my virtual environment and that's good.
 And this talks about that.
 So let's talk about some shell commands.
 So the first shell command is ls,
 I showed you the man page for that.
 And that lists the current files
 in the current working directory.
 ls -l lists them with some detail,
 including the size and the last modification date
 and the owner of the file.
 And that little drwx stuff on the left,
 well, that's the permissions.
 And there is rwx, rwx, rwx,
 and one is the permission that the owner would have,
 fellow members of their group,
 and then anyone including anonymous users.
 And so you notice that we have more permission,
 we have lots more permissions than others.
 So the next command is pwd, pwd, print working directory.
 And so what happens is Unix, Linux is a multi-user system
 and our account name is dj4e.
 And so /home is where all the home directories are.
 And home dj4e is the home directory
 for the user named dj4e.
 So cd is change directory.
 Now, if you type cd by itself,
 you go back to your home directory.
 So if I go cd space Django project,
 oh, and this is another thing.
 There is what's called command line completion.
 So I know that I'm typing a directory here that exists,
 djan tab underscore tab,
 and then I don't have to know all the names.
 You see that Django projects is one of my folders.
 And if it's unique, it completes it for it.
 So as I'm typing, if I need to complete a file name
 or a folder name, I can use the tab key.
 The other thing about this, if I do a pwd,
 you can see now I'm in home dj4e Django projects
 and it's given me a context, right?
 I'm still in my home directory,
 but now I'm going down into folders
 and directories and files.
 Now, if I type the command cd,
 it will go back to my home directory
 'cause now I'm down in a subdirectory
 and I do a pwd and you see I'm back in my home directory.
 Here's another trick that I really want you to learn.
 Up arrow, you can scroll, I'm up arrow, down arrow,
 up arrow, up arrow, up arrow.
 I can scroll up to a previous command and then hit enter
 and then run it again.
 This will save you a bunch of time, okay?
 So I'm sitting in this folder.
 So let's go back and take a look at the other things
 I want to cover.
 You can use the tilde on a cd command
 and you'll see that it's showing this tilde
 in the current prompt, cd tilde slash Django underscore
 projects and that will go all the way up to the home
 directory and then work its way down.
 So if you're like, where am I?
 You can say, go to tilde slash and then you know
 what that folder name is.
 Let's see, do I have any files here?
 I can remove, let's go back into my home directory,
 do an ls and see some files.
 DB.zap, let's just get rid of it, rm db.zap.
 Boop, it's gone.
 Now we didn't put it in the trash can, we removed it.
 It does it.
 So you'll notice that db.zap is no longer
 in my list of files.
 So be careful with the rm command,
 but it's quite powerful and useful.
 (clears throat)
 So this grep command, grep searches all the files.
 So if you look, I've got lots and lots and lots of files.
 And so I'm going to say, grep minus r,
 that means recursive, for a string autoscreate star
 in all my files.
 Now I got a lot of files here, so this is gonna be
 a long grep, but sometimes, and it works from the current
 working directory, let me go into cd jango projects.
 And then let's go into, let's see if, no,
 let's go into my ads.
 Chucklist, I think it might be called Chucklist, yeah.
 So this is one of my, you know, later we'll get this,
 but I'm gonna run this grep command,
 and it's gonna find every example in every file
 in this folder and below, where the string autos_create
 exists, so that means grep minus r means recursively,
 go deep and down the tree, autos_create is whatever string
 you wanna put in, and then star means all the files,
 but then it recursively goes through all the files.
 And so you will see, oh, I didn't have that.
 Let's see, autoscreate, let's look for the word,
 I don't know, model.
 Let's look for the word model in all of these files
 and below, so there you go.
 So now I can see that this is the file.
 Some of these files, like pycache, are junk,
 but, you know, let's see, where have I got a model
 in my file, right there.
 Ads for, so there's this, it shows me the file name
 and the string, and usually what you're looking for
 is maybe a typographical error that you've seen
 in an error message.
 So that's the shell interface, and again,
 part of what I wanna show you is for you to know
 when you're talking to the shell,
 'cause you're not always talking to the shell.
 If it ends in a dollar sign prompt,
 usually you're talking to the shell.
 So let's take a look at what it might look like
 in different situations.
 So sometimes you just run Python interactively,
 and if you've taken a Python course,
 this is the REPL, the read, evaluate, something loop.
 So you just type Python,
 and it's running Python interactively.
 Now you're still sitting in a prompt, okay?
 And so now that's not the same thing.
 That's not Linux talking to you,
 that's Python talking to you.
 You're running the command Python on Linux,
 and that Python command is asking for input.
 So it expects you to type Python.
 Hello world, of course we're gonna type hello world.
 And that reads the Python, parses it, and then executes it.
 Now if you're in this and you type ls,
 it's like I don't know what to do.
 I have no idea, pwd, I have no idea what you're doing,
 'cause you're not in the shell.
 So students come to me and go like,
 I keep typing pwd and it's giving me name errors.
 Like, well, that's 'cause you're in Python, not in the shell.
 So you have to know how to exit.
 And you do that with quit, open paren, close paren, enter.
 And now you're back to the happy little dollar sign prompt.
 And now you can say pwd and it will work, right?
 So part of it is recognizing what you're interacting with
 based on what the prompt looks like.
 Okay, so that's the Python interface.
 Now, if you end up with a more than one line Python statement,
 that three chevrons prompts turns into a dot, dot, dot.
 Let me show you how that works.
 So I'm gonna run Python again.
 I'm just cursoring up Python.
 And I can say for i in range five, colon.
 Now you see that the prompt is turned into a dot, dot, dot.
 And I have to do an indent, of course.
 One, two, three, four, five, print i.
 And it's still thinking that I'm in this for loop.
 And so it's saying, are you still doing more stuff
 in the for loop?
 Let me put another line in this for loop.
 I could say print second line.
 And then I can hit the enter and say,
 I'm done with the for loop.
 And then we'll actually read the for loop,
 run the for loop, execute it five times
 with i being zero, one, two, three, four.
 But the body loop has two things.
 And then when it's done with this sort of continuation,
 dot, dot, dot is like, I need more, I'm not done yet.
 Whatever you typed, it's not finished.
 Now I'm back to the standard Chevron prompt,
 at which case I would type quit.
 And now I'm back to the shell prompt.
 See, the whole idea is to be able to record,
 it's like, don't get lost because it's asking,
 you're talking to the wrong thing.
 Okay, so that's one thing.
 Now, later we'll have you talking to your database.
 And SQLite is one of the databases that we use.
 And so we can, I'm gonna go back into my home directory,
 cd pwd ls.
 And so we see this file db.sqlite3,
 that is where SQLite stores its data.
 So all the command is sqlite3,
 and then you give it as a parameter,
 the name of the file, db.sqlite3, right?
 So that's gonna read that.
 And now you see the prompt has changed
 to sqlite greater than.
 And that's because I can't say ls here.
 It's like, what do you mean?
 This also shows the continuation prompt,
 because it expects commands to stop.
 What is happening to me?
 It just stays in this dot, dot, dot arrow.
 And that's because all SQL commands end in semicolon.
 And so it's just like, I haven't seen a semicolon yet,
 so you must still be typing.
 Now it's like, oh, you just, not only did you do some,
 I finally got a semicolon,
 but it's still terrible SQL, structured query language, okay?
 So this sqlite or the dot, dot, dot arrow, right?
 That is sqlite or the sqlite continuation,
 'cause that's what we're dealing with with the dot, dot, dot.
 And a lot of students get confused
 when they see that dot, dot, dot arrow,
 and then I'm like, just type a semicolon.
 They're like, yeah, I was just trying to get it
 to stop asking me stuff, okay?
 But, so that's not what you type.
 What we are going to type is a command.
 There's two kinds of commands.
 Dot tables is one kind of command.
 The commands that start with dot
 are actually commands to sqlite to itself.
 And that dot table says, what tables are in this database?
 Oh, and this one doesn't have any tables.
 So I'm gonna get out of this one
 and go into a database that has tables,
 'cause this is the one in my home directory.
 And so I'm gonna say dot quit to get out of this.
 Ah, how do I get out, right?
 You'll notice I even had it.
 I don't even remember what this is.
 So I'm gonna go into Django projects.
 I'm gonna go into MySite,
 which is the place you're gonna be working on doing LS,
 and you'll see that I got a dbusqlite here as well.
 It's a different one because it is just a different one.
 I had one in my home directory,
 now I got one two folders down in Django projects MySite.
 Keep in tab and then db.sqlite.
 Now I'm gonna say dot tables,
 and I'm gonna have a bunch of tables.
 Look at that, I got a whole bunch of tables.
 And this is not exactly your code, this is my code.
 This is later in the semester.
 But I can say select star from polls to underscore choice.
 Now that is an SQL command and you'll learn about that later.
 It does end in a semicolon.
 It's got, you know, select is one of the things
 I could type, update, delete, you know.
 We'll learn a bit of SQL as the course progresses.
 Oh, I didn't type it right.
 But watch, I'm gonna use the up arrow key.
 Up arrow, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back.
 Oh, for polls, two, choice, boom.
 So that's the two lines that are in there.
 And again, later you will understand what that is.
 And then to get out of this, I type dot quit,
 which is different than the Python,
 which is quit, open, paren, close, paren.
 So you gotta remember that if you're in one of these things,
 you got to get out of that.
 Okay, so that's another thing.
 Then there is the Django shell.
 And we'll use that later.
 And you can say, and so this has to work in a folder
 that has the file manage.py in it.
 And that's basically a Python project.
 And you have to run the manage.py
 Python manage.py that says run the manage.py file.
 And then I'm gonna give it another command called shell.
 So that says load up manage.py
 and then drop me into a Django shell.
 So you'll do a lot of things to say Python manage.py
 and like Python manage.py check,
 which we check to see if there's something broken
 in our configuration for this application for this project.
 And the answer is, oh, you're not broken.
 So that's good.
 But I wanna show you the shell
 because I'm trying to show you user interfaces
 that you might get stuck into and how to get out of those.
 So now you notice that it looks exactly like the Python shell
 and I can type Python commands.
 And you might say, okay, what's the difference?
 I can type print hello world.
 And it says hello world.
 I can say quit open print to close print.
 But what's happened is Python has run manage.py
 and loaded your entire Django application
 into this Python instance.
 And so there are commands like,
 and let me find a command here, from,
 now this is a Python statement.
 Now, I think I gotta change this
 in this particular thing to be poles too.
 For yours, it'll be poles.
 Yeah, so that ran a Python,
 but it imported a bunch of code from my models.py file.
 Again, later in the course, okay.
 And then I can run a command
 to create an in-memory model
 to create a brand new question in this model.
 Oops, I didn't mean to do the quit.
 And so that actually, I mean, we can print Q
 to see what's in Q.
 Yeah, it's a question and it's got the text
 of hello world in, we could save it.
 And so there are things you can do in the Django shell
 that you can't do in the Python shell,
 but it's a Python shell plus a bunch of preloaded Django stuff.
 So you might have a continuation line,
 but then you leave by quit, open print, close print.
 And now we're back to the Linux command prompt
 because there's a dollar sign there.
 LS minus L, PWD, all that Linux stuff is working.
 And so that's basically my quick introduction.
 Again, you'll learn all this as we go.
 There's a lot more to it.
 And we'll give you each of these commands.
 You'll have whole sets of commands to do.
 And I just wanted you at this beginning
 to get a kind of a picture of what's going on
 in the command line interface, okay?
 Cheers.
 (upbeat music)
